THE WIRE IN THE BLOOD [181-142-066-4.8]





By: Val McDermid





Category: Fiction Police.





Synopsis:





Young girls are disappearing around the country. Everyone assumes they

are teenage runaways, headed for the big city and bright lights. They

vanish without trace - society's disposable children. There is nothing

to connect them to each other, let alone the killer whose charming

manner hides a warped and sick mind.





Nobody moves around inside the messy heads of serial killers like Dr

Tony Hill. Now heading up the recently founded National Profiling Task

Force, he sets his team an exercise: they are given the details of

thirty missing teenagers and asked to use their new techniques to

discover whether there is a sinister link between any of the cases. Only

one officer, Shaz Bowman, comes up with a concrete theory, but it is

ridiculed by the rest of her group . . . until a killer murders and

mutilates one of their number.





Could Bowman's outrageous suspicion possibly be true? For Tony Hill, the

murder of a member of his team becomes a matter for personal revenge.

Aided by his previous colleague, Carol Jordan, he embarks upon a

campaign of psychological terrorism - a game of cat and mouse where the

roles of hunter and hunted are all too easily reversed.





Last printing: 07/31/02

`=190' Taut, suspenseful and shocking, The Wire in the Blood is a ferociously readable thriller from one of Britain's leading young novelists.





BY THE SAME AUTHOR





The Mermaids Singing





Kate Brannigan novels





Blue Genes





Clean Break





Crack Down -





Kick Back





Dead Beat





Lindsay Gordon novels





Booked for Murder





Union Jack





Final Edition -





Common Murder





Report for Murder





Non-fiction A Suitable Job for a Woman





THE WIRE IN THE BLOOD





Val McDermid





H&rperCollmsPublishers





This novel is entirely a work of fiction. The names, characters

and incidents portrayed in it are the work of the author's imagination.

Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events or

localities is entirely coincidental.





HarperCollinsPublishers 77-85 Fulham Palace Road, London W6 8JB





Published by HarperCollinsPublishers 1997





3579 10 8641





Val McDermid asserts the moral right to be identified as the author of this work





A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library





ISBN: o-4565- oo 215591 x





Set in Postscript Linotype Sabon by

Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd,





Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk





Printed and bound in Great Britain by Caledonian International Book

Manufacturing Ltd, Glasgow





All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,

stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted,

in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,

photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior

permission of the publishers.





ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS





It's hard to imagine how I could have written this book without a lot of help from several key people. For their specialist knowledge and willingness to give so freely of their expertise, I'd like to thank Sheila Radford, Dr Mike Berry, Jai Penna, Paula Tyler and Dr Sue Black. I owe an apology to Edwina and Lesley, who ran around like headless chickens researching something that was cut in the rewrites. Without Jim and Simon at Thornton Electronics, Mac and Manda, I would almost certainly have had a complete nervous breakdown when the hard disk crashed. But the perseverance and perspicacity of three women in particular got me through to the end. For that reason, this book is for:

Julia, Lisanne and Brigid With love





The trilling wire in the blood Sings below inveterate scars Appeasing

long forgotten wars.





Four Quartets, Burnt Norton T. S. Eliot





PROLOGUE.





Murder was like magic, he thought. The quickness of his hand always

deceived the eye, and that was how it was going to stay. He was like

the postman delivering to a house where afterwards they would swear

there had been no callers. This was the knowledge that was lodged in

his being like a pacemaker in a heart patient. Without the power of his

magic he'd be dead. Or as good as.





He knew just from looking at her that she would be the next. Even

before the eye contact, he knew. There had always been a very

particular combination that spelled perfection in his thesaurus of the

senses. Innocence and ripeness, mink-dark hair, eyes that danced. He'd

never been wrong yet. It was an instinct that kept him alive. Or as

good as.





He watched her watching him, and under the urgent mutter of the crowd,

he heard echoing in his head the music. "Jack and Jill went up the hill

to fetch a pail of water. Jack fell down and broke his crown ... The

chiming tune swelled and burst then battered his brain like a spring

tide against a breakwater. And Jill? What about Jill? Oh, he knew

what happened to Jill. Over and over again, repetitious as the barbaric

nursery rhyme. But it was never enough. He had never quite been

satisfied that the punishment had fit the crime.





And so there had to be a next one. And there he was, watching her

watching him sending her messages with his eyes. Messages that said,

"I've noticed you. Find your way to me and I'll notice you some more."





And she read him. She read him, loud and clear. She was so obvious;

life hadn't scarred her expectations with static yet. A knowing smile

quirked the corners of her mouth and she took the first step on the long

and, for him, exciting journey of exploration and pain. The pain, as

far as he was concerned, was





THE WIRE IN THE BLOOD





Val Mcdermid





Young girls are disappearing around the country. Everyone assumes they

are teenage runaways, headed for the big city and bright lights. They

vanish without trace society's disposable children. There is nothing to

connect them to each other, let alone the killer whose charming manner

hides a warped and sick mind.





Nobody moves around inside the messy heads of serial killers like Dr.

Tony Hill. Now heading up the recently founded National Profiling Task

Force, he sets his team an exercise: they are given the details of

thirty missing teenagers and asked to use their new techniques to

discover whether there is a sinister link between any of the cases. Only

one officer, Shaz Bowman, comes up with a concrete theory, but it is

ridiculed by the rest of her group ... until a killer murders and

mutilates one of their number.





Could Bowman's outrageous suspicion possibly be true? For Tony Hill,

the murder of a member of his team becomes a matter for personal

revenge. Aided by his previous colleague, Carol Jordan, he embarks upon

a campaign of psychological terrorism a game of cat and mouse where the

roles of hunter and hunted are all too easily reversed.





Taut, suspenseful and shocking, The Wire in the Blood is a ferociously

readable thriller from one of Britain's leading young novelists.





BY THE SAME AUTHOR





The Mermaids Singing





Kate Brannigan novels





Blue Genes





Clean Break





Crack Down Kick Back





Dead Beat





Lindsay Gordon novels





Booked for Murder





Union Jack





Final Edition





Common Murder





Report for Murder





Non-fiction A Suitable Job for a Woman





THE WIRE IN THE BLOOD





Val Mcdermid





Harpercollins Publish





This novel is entirely a work of fiction. The names, characters and

incidents portrayed in it are the work of the author's imagination.





Any resemblance to actual persons, living or dead, events or localities

is entirely coincidental.





Harpercotimspublishers 77-85 Fulham Palace Road, London W6 8JB





Published by Harpercollins Publish 1997





3579 10 8642 Copyright Val Mcdermid 1997





Val Mcdermid asserts the moral right to be identified as the author of

this work





A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library





ISBN O OO 2.2.5591 X





Set in Postscript Linotype Sabon by





Rowland Phototypesetting Ltd,

Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk





Printed and bound in Great Britain by Caledonian International Book

Manufacturing Ltd, Glasgow





All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced,

stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted,

in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,

recording or otherwise, without the prior permission of the publishers.





ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS





It's hard to imagine how I could have written this book without a lot of

help from several key people. For their specialist knowledge and

willingness to give so freely of their expertise, I'd like to thank

Sheila Radford, Dr. Mike Berry, Jai Penna, Paula Tyler and Dr. Sue

Black. I owe an apology to Edwina and Lesley, who ran around like

headless chickens researching something that was cut in the rewrites.





Without Jim and Simon at Thornton Electronics, Mac and Manda, I would

almost certainly have had a complete nervous breakdown when the hard

disk crashed. But the perseverance and perspicacity of three women in

particular got me through to the end. For that reason, this book is

for:





Julia, Lisanne and Brigid With love





The trilling wire in the blood Sings below inveterate scars Appeasing

long forgotten wars.





Four Quartets, Burnt Norton T.S. Eliot not quite the only necessity but

it was certainly one of them.





She worked her way towards him. Their routes varied, he'd noticed. Some

direct, bold; some meandering, wary in case they'd misread what they

thought his eyes were telling them. This one favoured the spiral path,

circling ever inward as if her feet were tracing the inside of a giant

nautilus shell, a miniature Guggenheim Gallery compacted into two

dimensions. Her step was measured, determined, her eyes never wavering

from him, as if there were no one else between, neither obstacle nor

distraction. Even when she was behind his back, he could feel her

stare, which was precisely how he thought it should be.





It was an approach that told him something about her. She wanted to

savour this encounter. She wanted to see him from every possible angle,

to imprint him on her memory forever, because she thought this would be

her only chance for so detailed a scrutiny. If anyone had told her what

the future truly held, she'd have fainted with the thrill of it.





At last, her decaying orbit brought her within his grasp. Only the

immediate circle of admirers stood between them, one or two deep. He

locked on to her eyes, injected charm into his gaze and, with a polite

nod to those around him, he took a step towards her. The bodies parted

obediently as he said, "Delightful to have met you, do excuse me?"





Uncertainty flitted across her face. Was she supposed to move, like

them, or should she stay in the ambit of his mesmerizing stare? It was

no contest; it never was. She was captivated, the reality of this

evening outstripping her every fantasy. "Hello," he said. "And what's

your name?"





She was momentarily speechless, never so close to fame, dazzled by that

spectacular dental display all for her benefit. My, what big teeth

you've got, he thought. All the better to eat her with.





"Donna," she finally stuttered. "Donna Doyle."





"That's a beautiful name," he said softly. The smile he won in response

was as brilliant as his own. Sometimes, it all felt too easy. People

heard what they wanted to hear, especially when what they were hearing

sounded like their dream come true. Total suspension of disbelief,

that's what he achieved every time. They came to these events expecting

Jacko Vance and everyone connected to the great man to be exactly what

was projected on TV. By association, anyone who was part of the

celebrity's entourage was gilded with the same brush. People were so

accustomed to Vance's open sincerity, so familiar with his very public

probity, it never crossed their minds to look for the catch. Why should

it, when Vance had a popular image that made Good King Wenceslas look

like Scrooge? The punters listened to the words and they heard Jack and

the Beanstalk from the little seed Vance or his minions planted, they

pictured the burgeoning flower of a life at the top of the tree right

alongside his.





In that respect, Donna Doyle was just like all the others. She could

have been working from a script he'd written for her. Having moved her

strategically into a corner, he made as if to hand her a signed

photograph of Vance the mega star Then he did a double take so

exquisitely natural it could have been part of De Niro's repertoire. "My

God," he breathed. "Of course. Of course!" The exclamation was the

verbal equivalent of smiting himself on the forehead with the heel of

his hand.





Caught with her fingers inches from his as she reached out to take what

had been so nearly offered, she frowned, not understanding. "What?"





He made a twisted little moue of self-disparagement. "Ignore me. I'm

sorry, I'm sure you've got much more interesting plans for your future

than anything we superficial programme makers could come up with." The

first time he'd tried the line, hands sweating, blood thudding in his

ears, he'd thought it was so corny it couldn't fool a drunk one sip from

catatonia. But he had been right to go with his instincts, even when

they had led him down the path of the criminally naff. That first one,

just like this next one, had grasped instantly that something was being

offered to her that hadn't been on the agenda for the insignificant

others he'd been talking to earlier.





"What do you mean?" Breathless, tentative, not wanting to admit she

already believed in case she'd misunderstood and left herself open to

the hot shaming flush of her misapprehension.





He gave the faintest of shrugs, one that hardly disturbed the smooth

fall of his immaculate suiting. "Forget it," he said with a slight,

almost imperceptible shake of the head, disappointment in the sad cast

of his eye, the absence of his gleaming smile.





"No, tell me." Now there was an edge of desperation, because everybody

wanted to be a star, no matter what they said. Was he really going to

snatch away that half-glimpsed magic carpet ride that could lift her out

of her despised life into his world?





A quick glance to either side, making sure he wasn't overheard, then his

voice was both soft and intense. "A new project we're working on.





You've got the look. You'd be perfect. As soon as I looked at you

properly, I knew you were the one." A regretful smile. "Now, at least

I have your image to carry in my head while we interview the hundreds of

hopefuls the agents send along to us. Maybe we'll get lucky ... " His

voice trailed off, his eyes liquid and bereft as the puppy left behind

in the holiday kennels.





"Couldn't I ... I mean, well ... " Donna's face lit up with hope, then

amazement at her forwardness, then disappointment as she talked herself

out of it without saying another word.





His smile grew indulgent. An adult would have identified it as

condescending, but she was too young to recognize when she was being

patronized. "I don't think so. It would be taking an enormous risk. A

project like this, at so delicate a stage ... Just a word in the wrong

ear could wreck it commercially. And you've no professional experience,

have you?"





That tantalizing peep at what could have been her possible future

uncapped a volcano of turbulent hope, words tumbling over each other

like rocks in the lava flow. Prizes for karaoke at the youth club, a

great dancer according to everybody, the Nurse in her form's reading of

Romeo and Juliet. He'd imagined schools would have had more sense than

to stir the tumultuous waters of adolescent desire with inflammatory

drama like that, but he'd been wrong. They'd never learned, teachers.





Just like their charges. The kids might assimilate the causes of the

First World War but they never grasped that cliches got that way because

they reflected reality. Better the devil you know. Don't take sweets

from strangers.





Those warnings might never have set Donna Doyle's eardrum vibrating if

her present expression of urgent eagerness was anything to go by. He

grinned and said, "All right! You've convinced me!" He lowered his

head and held her gaze. Now his voice was conspiratorial. "But can you

keep a secret?"





She nodded as if her life depended on it. She couldn't have known that

it did. "Oh, yes," Donna said, dark blue eyes sparkling, lips apart,

little pink tongue flickering between them. He knew her mouth was

growing dry. He also knew that she possessed other orifices where the

opposite phenomenon was happening.





He gave her a considering, calculated stare, an obvious appraisal that

she met with apprehension and desire mingling like Scotch and water. "I

wonder ... " he said, his voice almost a sigh. "Can you meet me tomorrow

morning? Nine o'clock?"





A momentary frown, then her face cleared, determination in her eyes.





"Yes," she said, school dismissed as irrelevant. "Yes, I can.





Whereabout?"





"Do you know the Plaza Hotel?" He had to hurry now. People were

starting to move towards him, desperate to recruit his influence to

their cause.





She nodded.





"They have an underground car park. You get into it from Beamish

Street. I'll be waiting there on level two. And not a word to anyone,

is that clear? Not your mum, not your dad, not your best friend, not

even the family dog." She giggled. "Can you do that?" He gave her the

curiously intimate look of the television professional, the one that

convinces the mentally troubled that news readers are in love with them.





"Level two? Nine o'clock?" Donna checked, determined not to screw up

her one chance of escape from the humdrum. She could never have

realized that by the end of the week she'd be weeping and screaming and

begging for humdrum. She'd be willing to sell what remained of her

immortal soul for humdrum. But even if someone had told her that then,

she would not have comprehended. Right then, the dazzle and the dream

of what he could offer was her complete universe. What could be a finer

prospect?





"And not a word, promise?"





"I promise," she said solemnly. "Cross my heart and hope to die."





PART ONE





Tony Hill lay in bed and watched a long strip of cloud slide across a

sky the colour of duck eggs. If anything had sold him on this narrow

back-to-back terraced house, it was the attic bedroom with its strange

angles and the pair of skylights that gave him something to look at when

sleep was elusive. A new house, a new city, a new start, but still it

was hard to lose consciousness for eight hours at a stretch.





It wasn't surprising that he hadn't slept well. Today was the first day

of the rest of his life, he reminded himself with a wry smile that

scrunched the skin round his deep-set blue eyes into a nest of wrinkles

that not even his best friend could call laughter lines. He'd never

laughed enough for that. And making murder his business had made sure

he never would.





Work was always the perfect excuse, of course. For two years, he'd been

toiling on behalf of the Home Office on a feasibility study to see

whether it would be useful or possible to create a national task force

of trained psychological profilers, a hit squad capable of moving in on

complex cases and working with the investigative teams to improve the

rate and speed of clean-up. It had been a job that had required all the

clinical and diplomatic skills he'd developed over years of working as a

psychologist in secure mental hospitals.





It had kept him off the wards, but it had exposed him to other dangers.





The danger of boredom, for example. Tired of being stuck behind a desk

or in endless meetings, he'd allowed himself to be seduced away from the

job in hand by the tantalizing offer of involvement in a case that even

from a distance had appeared to be something very special. Not in his

wildest nightmares could he have imagined just how exceptional it could

be. Nor how destructive.





He clenched his eyes momentarily against the memories that. always

stalked on the edge of his consciousness, waiting for him to drop his

guard and let them in. That was another reason why he slept badly. The

thought of what his dreams could do to him was no enticement to drift

away and hand control over to his subconscious.





The cloud slipped out of sight like a slow-moving fish and Tony rolled

out of bed, padding downstairs to the kitchen. He poured water into the

bottom section of the coffee pot, filled the mid-section with a darkly

fragrant roast from the freezer, screwed on the empty top section and

set it on the gas. He thought of Carol Jordan, as he did probably one

morning in three when he made the coffee. She'd given him the heavy

aluminium Italian pot when he'd come home from hospital after the case

was over. "You're not going to be walking to the cafe for a while,"

she'd said. "At least this way you can get a decent espresso at home."





It had been months now since he'd seen Carol. They'd not even taken the

opportunity to celebrate her promotion to detective chief inspector,

which showed just how far apart they'd grown. Initially, after his

release from hospital, she'd come to visit whenever the hectic pace of

her job would allow. Gradually, they'd both come to realize that every

time they were together, the spectre of the investigation rose between

them, obscuring and overshadowing whatever else might be possible for

them. He understood that Carol was better equipped than most to

interpret what she saw in him. He simply couldn't face the risk of

opening up to someone who might reject him when she realized how he had

been infected by his work.





If that happened, he doubted his capacity to function. And if he

couldn't function, he couldn't do his job. And that was too important

to let go. What he did saved people's lives. He was good at it,

probably one of the best there had ever been because he truly understood

the dark side. To risk the work would be the most irresponsible thing

he could ever do, especially now when the whole future of the newly

created National Offender Profiling Task Force lay in his hands.





What some people perceived as sacrifices were really dividends, he told

himself firmly as he poured out his coffee. He was permitted to do the

one thing he did supremely well, and they paid him money for it. A

tired smile crossed his face. God, but he was lucky.





Shaz Bowman understood perfectly why people commit murder. The

revelation had nothing to do with the move to a new city or the job that

had brought her there, but everything to do with the cowboy plumbers who

had installed the water supply when the former Victorian mill-owner's

mansion had been converted into self-contained apartments. The builders

had done a thoughtful job, preserving original features and avoiding

partitions that wrecked the fine proportions of the spacious rooms. To

the naked eye, Shaz's flat had been perfect, right down to the French

windows leading to the back garden that was her exclusive domain.





Years of shared student dives with sticky carpets and scummy bathtubs,

followed by a police section house and a preposterously expensive rented

bed sit in West London had left Shaz desperate for the opportunity to

check out whether house-proud was an adjective she could live with. The

move north had provided her first affordable chance. But the idyll had

shattered the first morning she had to rise early for work.





Bleary-eyed and semi-conscious, she'd run the shower long enough to get

the temperature right. She stepped under the powerful stream of water,

lifting her hands above her head in a strangely reverent gesture. Her

groan of pleasure turned abruptly to a scream as the water switched from

amniotic warmth to a scalding scatter of hypodermic stings. She hurled

herself clear of the shower cubicle, twisting her knee as she slipped on

the bathroom floor, cursing with a fluency she owed to her three years

in the Met.





Speechless, she stared at the plume of steam in the corner of the

bathroom where she had stood moments before. Then, as abruptly, the

steam dissipated. Cautiously, she extended a hand under the water. The

temperature was back where it should be. Inch by tentative inch, she

moved under the stream of water. Letting out her unconsciously held

breath, she reached for the shampoo. She'd got as far as the halo of

white lather when the icy needles of winter rain cascaded on her bare

shoulders. This time, her breath went inwards, taking enough shampoo

with it to add a coughing retch to the morning's sound effects.





It didn't take much to work out that her ordeal was the result of

someone else's synchronous ablutions. She was supposed to be ii a

detective, after all. But understanding didn't make her any happier.





The first day of the new job and instead of feeling calm and grounded

after a long, soothing shower, she was furious and frustrated, her

nerves jangling, the muscles in the nape of her neck tightening with the

promise of a headache. "Great," she growled, fighting back tears that

had more to do with emotion than the shampoo in them.





Shaz advanced on the shower once again and turned it off with a vicious

twist of the wrist. Mouth compressed into a thin line, she started

running a bath. Tranquillity was no longer an option for the day, but

she still had to get the suds out of her hair so she wouldn't arrive in

the squad room of the brand new task force looking like something no

self-respecting cat would have bothered to drag in. It was going to be

unnerving enough without having to worry about what she looked like.





As she crouched in the bath, dunking her head forward into the water,

Shaz tried to restore her earlier mood of exhilarated anticipation.





"You're lucky to be here, girl," she told herself. "All those dickheads

who applied and you didn't even have to fill in the form, you got

chosen. Hand-picked, elite. All that shit work paid off, all that

taking the crap with a smile. The canteen cowboys going nowhere fast,

they're the ones having to swallow the shit now. Not like you,

Detective Constable Shaz Bowman. National Offender Profiling Task Force

Officer Bowman." As if that wasn't enough, she'd be working alongside

the acknowledged master of that arcane blend of instinct and experience.





Dr. Tony Hill, BSc (London), DPhil (Oxon), the profiler's profiler,

author of the definitive British textbook on serial offenders. If Shaz

had been a woman given to hero-worship, Tony Hill would have been right

up there in the pantheon of her personal gods. As it was, the

opportunity to pick his brains and learn his craft was one that she'd

cheerfully have made sacrifices for. But she hadn't had to give up

anything. It had been dropped right into her lap.





By the time she was to welling her cap of short dark hair, considering

the chance of a lifetime that lay ahead of her had tamed her anger

though not her nerves. Shaz forced herself to focus on the day ahead.





Dropping the towel carelessly over the side of the bath, she stared into

the mirror, ignoring the blurt of freckles across her cheekbones and the

bridge of her small soft nose, passing over the straight line of lips

too slim to promise much sensuality and focusing on the feature that

everyone else noticed first about her.





Her eyes were extraordinary. Dark blue irises were shot through with

striations of an intense, paler shade that seemed to catch the light

like the facets of a sapphire. In interrogation, they were

irresistible. The eyes had it. That intense blue stare fixed people

like super-glue. Shaz had a feeling that it had made her last boss so

uncomfortable he'd been delighted at the prospect of shipping her out in

spite of an arrest and conviction record that would have been remarkable

in an experienced CID officer, never mind the rookie of the shift.





She'd only met her new boss once. Somehow, she didn't think Tony Hill

was going to be quite so much of a pushover. And who knew what he'd see

if he slid under those cold blue de fences With a shiver of anxiety,

Shaz turned away from the remorseless stare of the mirror and chewed the

skin on the side of her thumb.





Detective Chief Inspector Carol Jordan slipped the original out of the

photocopier, picked up the copy from the tray and crossed the open-plan

CID room to her office with nothing more revelatory than a genial,

"Morning, lads," to the two early bird detectives already at their

desks. She presumed they were only there at this hour because they were

trying to make an impression on her. Sad boys.





She shut her door firmly behind her and crossed to her desk. The

original crime report went back into the overnight file and onwards into

her out tray. The photostat joined four similar previous overnight

despatches in a folder that lived in her briefcase when it wasn't

sitting on her desk. Five, she decided, was critical mass. Time for

action. She glanced at her watch. But not quite yet.





The only other item that cluttered the desk now was a lengthy memo from

the Home Office. In the dry civil service language that could render

Tarantino dull, it announced the formal launch of the National Offender

Profiling Task Force. "Under the supervision of Commander Paul Bishop,

the task force will be led by Home Office clinical psychologist and

Senior Profiler Dr. Tony Hill. Initially, the task force will consist

of a further six experienced detectives seconded to work with Dr. Hill

and Commander Bishop under Home Office guidelines."





Carol sighed. "It could have been me. Oh yeah, it could have been me,"

she sang softly. She hadn't been formally invited. But she knew all

she'd have had to do was ask. Tony Hill had wanted her on the squad.





He'd seen her work at close quarters and he'd told her more than once

that she had the right cast of mind to help him make the new task force

effective. But it wasn't that simple. The one case they'd worked

together had been personally devastating as well as difficult for both

of them. And her feelings for Tony Hill were still too complicated for

her to relish the prospect of becoming his right-hand woman in other

cases that might become as emotionally draining and intellectually

challenging as their first encounter.





Nevertheless, she'd been tempted. Then this had come along. Early

promotion in a newly created force wasn't an opportunity she felt she

could afford to miss. The irony was that this chance had emerged from

the same serial killer hunt. John Brandon had been the Assistant Chief

Constable at Bradfield who'd had the nerve to bring in Tony Hill and to

appoint Carol liaison officer. And when he was promoted to Chief

Constable of the new force, he wanted her on board. His timing couldn't

have been better, she thought, a faint pang of regret surfacing in spite

of herself. She stood up and took the three steps that were all she

needed to cross her office and stare down at the docks below where

people moved around purposefully doing she knew not what.





Carol had learned the Job first with the Met in London and then with

Bradfield Metropolitan Police, both leviathans fuelled by the perpetual

adrenaline high of inner city crime. But now she was out on the edge of

England with East Yorkshire Police where, as her brother Michael had

wryly pointed out, the force's acronym was almost identical to the

traditional Yorkshire yokel greeting of





"Ey-up'. Here, the DCI's job

didn't involve juggling murder inquiries, drive-by shootings, gang wars,

armed robberies and high-profile drug deals.





In the towns and villages of East Yorkshire, there wasn't any shortage

of crime. But it was all low-level stuff. Her inspectors and sergeants

were more than capable of dealing with it, even in the small cities of

Holm and Traskham and the North Sea port of Seaford where she was based.





Her junior officers didn't want her running around on their tails. After

all, what did a city girl like her know about sheep rustling? Or

counterfeit cargo lading bills? Besides which, they all knew perfectly

well that when the new DCI turned up on the job, she wasn't so much

interested in finding out what was going down as she was in sussing out

who was up to scratch and who was bus king it, who might be on the sauce

and who might be on the take. And they were right. It was taking

longer than she'd anticipated, but she was gradually assembling a

picture of what her team was like and who was capable of what.





Carol sighed again, rumpling her shaggy blonde hair with the fingers of

one hand. It was an uphill struggle, not least because most of the

blunt Yorkshiremen she was working with were fighting a lifetime's

conditioning to take a woman guvnor seriously. Not for the first time,

she wondered if ambition had shoved her into a drastic mistake and

backed her flourishing career into a cul-de-sac.





She shrugged and turned away from the window, then pulled out the file

from her briefcase again. She might have opted to turn her back on the

profiling task force, but working with Tony Hill had already taught her

a few tricks. She knew what a serial offender's signature looked like.





She just hoped she didn't need a team of specialists to track one down.





One half of the double doors swung open momentarily ahead of the other.





A woman with a face instantly recognizable in 78 per cent of UK homes

(according to the latest audience survey) and high heels that shouted

the praises of legs which could have modelled pantyhose strode into the

make-up department, glancing over her shoulder and saying, '... which

gives me nothing to work off, so tell Trevor to swap two and four on the

running order, OK?"





Betsy Thorne followed her, nodding calmly. She looked far too wholesome

to be anything in TV, dark hair with irregular strands of silver swept

back in a blue velvet Alice band from a face that was somehow

quintessentially English; the intelligent eyes of a sheepdog, the bones

of a thoroughbred racehorse and the complexion of a Cox's Orange Pippin.





"No problem," she said, her voice every degree as warm and caressing as

her companion's. She made a note on the clipboard she was carrying.





Micky Morgan, presenter and only permissible star of Midday with Morgan,

the flagship two-hour lunchtime news magazine programme of the

independent networks, carried straight ahead to what was clearly her

usual chair. She settled in, pushed her honey blonde hair back and gave

her face a quick critical scrutiny in the glass as the make-up artist

swathed her in a protective gown. "Maria, you're back!" Micky

exclaimed, delight in her voice and eyes in equal measure. "Thank God.





I'm praying you've been out of the country so you didn't have to look at

what they do to me when you're not here. I absolutely forbid you to go

on holiday again!"





Maria smiled. "Still full of shit, Micky."





"It's what they pay her for," Betsy said, perching on the counter by the

mirror.





"Can't get the staff these days," Micky said through stiff lips as Maria

started to smooth foundation over her skin. "Zit coming up on the right

temple," she added.





"Premenstrual?" Maria asked.





"I thought I was the only one who could spot that a mile off," Betsy

drawled.





"It's the skin. The elasticity changes," Maria said absently,

completely absorbed in her task.





"Talking Point," Micky said. "Run it past me again, Bets." She closed

her eyes to concentrate and Maria seized the chance to work on her

eyelids.





Betsy consulted her clipboard. "In the wake of the latest revelations

that yet another junior minister has been caught in the wrong bed by the

tabloids, we ask, "What makes a woman want to be a mistress?" She ran

through the guests for the item while Micky listened attentively. Betsy

came to the final interviewee and smiled. "You'll enjoy this: Dorien

Simmonds, your favourite novelist. The professional mistress, putting

the case that actually being a mistress is not only marvelous fun but a

positive social service to all those put-upon wives who have to endure

marital sex long after he bores them senseless."





Micky chuckled. "Brilliant. Good old Dorien. Is there anything, do

you suppose, that Dorien wouldn't do to sell a book?"





"She's just jealous," Maria said. "Lips, please, Micky."





"Jealous?" Betsy asked mildly.





"If Dorien Simmonds had a husband like Micky's, she wouldn't be flying

the flag for mistresses," Maria said firmly. "She's just pig sick that

she'll never land a catch like Jacko. Mind you, who isn't?"





"Mmmm," Micky purred.





"Mmmm," Betsy agreed.





It had taken years for the publicity machine to carve the pairing of

Micky Morgan and Jacko Vance as firmly into the nation's consciousness

as fish and chips or Lennon and Mccartney. The celebrity marriage made

in ratings heaven, it could never be dissolved. Even the gossip

columnists had given up trying.





The irony was that it had been fear of newspaper gossip that had brought

them together in the first place. Meeting Betsy had turned Micky's life

on its head at a time when her career had started curving towards the

heights. To climb as far and as fast as Micky meant collecting an

interesting selection of enemies ranging from the poisonously envious to

the rivals who'd been edged out of the limelight they thought was theirs

of right. Since there was little to fault Micky on professionally,

they'd homed in on the personal. Back in the early eighties, lesbian

chic hadn't been invented. For women even more than men, being gay was

still one of the quickest routes to the P45. Within a few months of

abandoning her formerly straight life by falling in love with Betsy,

Micky understood what a hunted animal feels like.





Her solution had been radical and extremely successful. Micky had Jacko

to thank for that. She had been and still was lucky to have him, she

thought as she looked approvingly at her reflection in the make-up

mirror.





Perfect.





Tony Hill looked around the room at the team he had hand-picked and felt

a moment's pity. They thought they were walking into this grave new

world with their eyes open. Coppers never thought of themselves as

innocents abroad. They were too streetwise. They'd seen it all, done

it all, got pissed and thrown up on the T-shirt. Tony was here to

instruct half a dozen cops who already thought they knew it all that

there were unimaginable horrors out there that would make them wake up

screaming in the night and teach them to pray. Not for forgiveness, but

for healing. He knew only too well that whatever they thought, none of

them had made a genuinely informed choice when they'd opted for the

National Offender Profiling Task Force.





None of them except, perhaps, Paul Bishop. When the Home Office had

given the profiling project the green light, Tony had called in every

favour he could claim and a few he couldn't to make sure the police

figurehead was someone who knew the gravity of what he was taking on.





He'd dangled Paul Bishop's name in front of the politicians like a

carrot in front of a reluctant mule, reminding them of how well Paul

performed in front of the cameras. Even then it had been touch and go

till he'd pointed out that even





London's cynical hacks showed a bit of respect for the man who'd headed

the successful hunts for the predators they'd dubbed the Railcard Rapist

and the Metroland Murderer. After those investigations, there was no

question in Tony's mind that Paul knew exactly the kind of nightmares

that lay ahead.





On the other hand, the rewards were extraordinary. When it worked, when

their work actually put someone away, these police officers would know a

high unlike any other they'd ever experienced. It was a powerful

feeling, to know your endeavours had helped put a killer away. It was

even more gratifying to realize how many lives you might have saved

because you shone a light down the right path for your colleagues to go

down. It was exhilarating, even though it was tempered with the

knowledge of what the perpetrator had already done. Somehow, he had to

convey that satisfaction to them as well.





Paul Bishop was talking now, welcoming them to the task force and

outlining the training programme he and Tony had thrashed out between

them. "We're going to take you through the process of profiling, giving

you the background information you need to start developing the skill

for yourself," he said. It was a crash course in psychology, inevitably

superficial, but covering the basics. If they'd chosen wisely, their

apprentices would go off in their own preferred directions, reading more

widely, tracking down other specialists and building up their own

expertise in particular areas of the profiling craft that interested

them.





Tony looked around at his new colleagues. All CID-trained, all but one

a graduate. A sergeant and five constables, two of them women. Eager

eyes, notepads open, pens at the ready. They were smart, this lot. They

knew that if they did well here and the unit prospered, they could go

all the way to the top on the strength of it.





His steady gaze ranged over them. Part of him wished Carol Jordan was

among them, sharing her sharp perceptions and shrewd analyses, tossing

in the occasional grenade of humour to lighten the grimness. But his

sensible head knew there would be more than enough problems ahead

without that complication.





If he had to put money on any of them turning into the kind of star that

would stop him missing Carol's abilities, he'd go for the one with the

eyes that blazed cold fire. Sharon Bowman. Like all the best hunters,

she'd kill if she had to.





Just like he'd done himself.





Tony pushed the thought away and concentrated on Paul's words, waiting

for the signal. When Paul nodded, Tony took over smoothly. "The FBI

take two years to train their operatives in offender profiling," he

said, leaning back in his chair in a deliberate attitude of relaxed

calm. "We do things differently over here." A note of acid in the

voice. "We'll be accepting our first cases in six weeks. In three

months' time, the Home Office expects us to be running a full case-load.





What you've got to do inside that time frame is assimilate a mountain of

theory, learn a series of protocols as long as your arm, develop total

familiarity with the computer software we've had specially written for

the task force, and cultivate an instinctive understanding of those

among us who are, as we clinicians put it, totally fucked up." He

grinned unexpectedly at their serious faces. "Any questions?"





"Is it too late to resign?" Bowman's electric eyes sparkled humour that

was missing from her deadpan tones.





"The only resignations they accept are the ones certified by the

pathologist." The wry response came from Simon Mcneill. Psychology

graduate from Glasgow, four years' service with Strath-clyde Police,

Tony reminded himself, reassuring himself that he could recall names and

backgrounds without too much effort.





"Correct," he said.





"What about insanity?" another voice from the group asked.





"Far too useful a tool for us to let you slip from our grasp," Tony told

him. "I'm glad you brought that up, actually, Sharon. It gives me the

perfect lead into what I want to talk about first today." His eyes

moved from face to face, waiting until his seriousness was mirrored in

each of their faces. A man accustomed to assuming whatever personality

and demeanour would be acceptable, he shouldn't have been surprised at

how easy it was to manipulate them, but he was. If he did his job

properly, it would be far harder to achieve in a couple of months' time.





Once they were settled and concentrating, he tossed his folder of notes

on to the table attached to the arm of his chair and ignored them.





"Isolation," he said. "Alienation. The hardest things to deal with.





Human beings are gregarious. We're herd animals. We hunt in packs, we

celebrate in packs. Take away human contact from someone and their

behaviour distorts. You're going to learn a lot about that over the

coming months and years." He had their attention now. Time for the

killer blow.





"I'm not talking about serial offenders. I'm talking about you. You're

all police officers with CID experience. You're successful cops, you've

fitted in, you've made the system work for you. That's why you're here.





You're used to the camaraderie of team work, you're accustomed to a

support system that backs you up. When you get a result, you've always

had a drinking squad to share the victory with. When it's all gone up in

smoke, that same squad comes out and commiserates with you. It's a bit

like a family, only it's a family without the big brother that picks on

you and the auntie that asks when you're going to get married." He

noted the nods and twinges of facial expression that indicated

agreement. As he'd expected, there were fewer from the women than the

men.





He paused for a moment and leaned forward. "You've just been

collectively bereaved. Your families are dead and you can never, never

go home any more. This is the only home you have, this is your only

family." He had them now, gripped tighter than any thriller had ever

held them. The Bowman woman's right eyebrow twitched up into an

astonished arc, but other than that, they were motionless.





"The best profilers have probably got more in common with serial killers

than with the rest of the human race. Because killers have to be good

profilers, too. A killer profiles his victims. He has to learn how to

look at a shopping precinct full of people and pick out the one person

who will work as a victim for him. He picks the wrong person and it's

good night, Vienna. So he can't afford to make mistakes any more than

we can. Like us, he kicks off consciously sorting by set criteria, but

gradually, if he's good, it gets to be an instinct. And that's how good

I want you all to be."





For a moment, his perfect control slipped as images crowded unbidden to

the front of his mind. He was the best, he knew that now. But he'd

paid a high price to discover that. The idea that payment might come

due again was something he managed to reject as long as he was sober. It

was no accident that Tony had scarcely had a drink for the best part of

a year.





Collecting himself, Tony cleared his throat and straightened in his

seat. "Very soon, your lives are going to change. Your priorities will

shift like Los Angeles in an earthquake. Believe me, when you spend

your days and nights projecting yourself inside a mind that's programmed

to kill until death or incarceration prevents it, you suddenly find a

lot of things that used to seem important are completely irrelevant.





It's hard to get worked up about the unemployment figures when you've

been contemplating the activities of somebody who's taken more people

off the register in the last six months than the government has." His

cynical smile gave them the cue to relax the muscles that had been taut

for the past few minutes.





"People who have not done this kind of work have no notion of what it is

like. Every day, you review the evidence, raking through it for that

elusive clue you missed the last forty-seven times. You watch

helplessly as your hot leads turn out colder than a junkie's heart. You

want to shake the witnesses who saw the killer but don't remember

anything about him because nobody told them in advance that one of the

people who would fill up with petrol in their service station one night

three months ago was a multiple murderer. Some detective who thinks

what you're doing is a bag of crap sees no reason why your life

shouldn't be as fucking miserable as his, so he gives out your phone

number to husbands, wives, lovers, children, parents, siblings, all of

them people who want a crumb of hope from you.





"And as if that isn't enough, the media gets on your back. And then the

killer does it again."





Leon Jackson, who'd made it out of Liverpool's black ghetto to the Met

via an Oxford scholarship, lit a cigarette. The snap of his lighter had

the other two smokers reaching for their own. "Sounds cool," he said,

dropping one arm over the back of his chair. Tony couldn't help the

pang of pity. Harder they come, the bigger the fall.





"Arctic," Tony said. "So, that's how people outside the Job see you.





What about your former colleagues? When you come up against the ones

you left behind, believe me, they're going to start noticing you've gone

a bit weird. You're not one of the gang any more, and they'll start

avoiding you because you smell wrong. Then when you're working a case,

you're going to be transplanted into an alien environment and there will

be people there who don't want you on the case. Inevitably." He leaned

forward again, hunched against the chill wind of memory. "And they won't

be afraid to let you know it."





Tony read superiority in Leon's sneer. Being black, he reasoned, Leon

probably figured he'd had a taste of that already and rejection could

therefore hold no fears for him. What he almost certainly





didn't realize was that his bosses had needed a black success story.





They'd have made that clear to the officers who controlled the culture,

so the chances were that no one had really pushed Leon half as hard as

he thought they had. "And don't think the brass will back you when the

shit comes down," Tony continued. "They won't. They'll love you for

about two days, then when you haven't solved their headaches, they'll

start to hate you. The longer it takes to resolve the serial of fences

the worse it becomes. And the other detectives avoid you because you've

got a contagious disease called failure. The truth might be out there,

but you haven't got it, and until you do, you're a leper.





"Oh, and by the way," he added, almost as an afterthought, ' they do

nail the bastard thanks to your hard work, they won't even invite you to

the party."





The silence was so intense he could hear the hiss of burning tobacco as

Leon inhaled. Tony got to his feet and shoved his springy black hair

back from his forehead. "You probably think I'm exaggerating. Believe

me, I'm barely scratching the surface of how bad this job will make you

feel. If you don't think it's for you, if you're having doubts about

your decision, now's the time to walk away. Nobody will reproach you.





No blame, no shame. Just have a word with Commander Bishop." He looked

at his watch. "Coffee break. Ten minutes."





He picked up his folder and carefully didn't look at them as they pushed

back chairs and made a ragged progress to the door and the coffee

station in the largest of the three rooms they'd been grudgingly granted

by a police service already strapped for accommodation for their own

officers. When at last he looked up, Shaz Bowman stood leaning against

the wall by the door, waiting.





"Second thoughts, Sharon?" he asked.





"I hate being called Sharon," she said. "People who want a response go

for Shaz. I just wanted to say it's not only profilers that get treated

like shit. There's nothing you said just now that sounds any worse than

what women deal with all the time in this job."





"So I've been told," Tony said, thinking inevitably of Carol Jordan. "If

it's true, you lot should have a head start in this game."





Shaz grinned and pushed off from the wall, satisfied. "Just watch," she

said, swivelling on the balls of her feet and moving through the door on

feet as silent and springy as a jungle cat.





Jacko Vance leaned forward across the flimsy table and frowned. He

pointed to the open desk diary. "You see, Bill? I'm already committed

to running the half-marathon on the Sunday. And then after that, we're

filming Monday and Tuesday, I'm doing a club opening in Lincoln on

Tuesday night you're coming to that, by the way, aren't you?" Bill

nodded, and Jacko continued. "I've got meetings lined up Wednesday back

to back and I've got to drive back up to Northumberland for my volunteer

shift. I just don't see how we can accommodate them." He threw himself

back against the striped tweed of the production caravan's comfortless

sofa bench with a sigh.





"That's the whole point, Jacko," his producer said calmly, stirring the

skimmed milk into the two coffees he was making in the kitchen area.





Bill Ritchie had been producing Vance's Visits for long enough to know

there was little point in trying to change his star's mind once it was

made up. But this time, he was under sufficient pressure from his

bosses to try. "This documentary short's supposed to make you look

busy, to say, "Here's this amazing guy, busy professional life, yet he

finds time to work for charity, so why aren't you?" He brought the

coffees to the table.





"I'm sorry, Bill, but it's not on." Jacko picked up his coffee and

winced at its scalding heat. Hastily, he put it down again. "When are

we going to get a proper coffee maker in here?"





"If it's anything to do with me, never," Bill said with a mock-severe

scowl. "The lousy coffee's the one thing guaranteed to divert you from

whatever you're going on about."





Jacko shook his head ruefully, acknowledging he'd been caught out. "OK.





But I'm still not doing it. For one, I don't want a camera crew dogging

my heels any more than I already have to put up with. For two, I don't

do charity work so I can show off about it on prime-time telethons. For

three, the poor sick bastards I spend my nights with are terminally ill

people who do not need a handheld camera shoved down their emaciated

throats. I'll happily do something else for the telethon, maybe

something with Micky, but I'm not having the people I work with

exploited just so we can guilt-trip a few more grand out of the

viewers."





Bill spread his hands in defeat. "Fine by me. Do you want to tell them

or will I?"





"Would you, Bill? Save me the aggravation?" Jacko's smile was bright

as a shaft of sunlight from a thundercloud, promising as the





hour before a first date. It was imprinted on his audience like a race

memory. Women made love to their husbands with more gusto because

Jacko's sexually inviting eyes and kissable mouth were flickering across

the inside of their eyelids. Adolescent girls found their vague erotic

longings suddenly focused. Old ladies doted on him, without connecting

the subsequent feelings of unfulfilled sadness.





Men liked him too, but not because they found him sexy. Men liked Jacko

Vance because he was, in spite of everything, one of the lads. A

British, Commonwealth, and European gold medallist and holder of the

world javelin record, Olympic gold had seemed like an inevitability for

the darling of the back pages. Then one night, driving back from an

athletics meeting in Gateshead, Jacko drove into a dense bank of fog on

the A1. He wasn't the only one.





The morning news bulletins put the figures at between twenty-seven and

thirty-five vehicles in the multiple pile-up. The big story wasn't the

six dead, however. The big story was the tragic heroism of Jacko Vance,

British athletics' golden boy. In spite of suffering multiple

lacerations and three broken ribs in the initial impact, Jacko had

crawled out of his mangled motor and rescued two children from the back

of a car seconds before it burst into flames. Depositing them on the

hard shoulder, he'd gone back into the tangled metal and attempted to

free a lorry driver pinioned between his steering wheel and the buckled

door of his cab.





The creaking of stressed metal turned to a shriek as accumulated

pressures built up on the lorry and the roof caved in. The driver

didn't stand a chance. Neither did Jacko Vance's throwing arm. It took

the firemen three agonizing hours to cut him free from the crushing

weight of metal that had smashed his flesh to raw meat and his bones to

splinters. Worse, he was conscious for most of it. Trained athletes

knew all about pushing through the pain barrier.





The news of his George Cross came the day after the medics fitted his

first prosthesis. It was small consolation for the loss of the dream

that had been the core of his life for a dozen years. But bitterness

didn't cloud his natural shrewdness. He knew how fickle the media could

be. He still smarted at the memory of the headlines when he'd blown his

first attempt at the European title. JACK SPLAT! had been the kindest

stab at the heart of the man who only the day before had been JACK OF

HEARTS.





He knew he had to capitalize on his glory quickly or he'd soon be

another yesterday's hero, early fodder for the





"Where Are They Now?"





column. So he called in a few favours, renewed his acquaintance with

Bill Ritchie and ended up commentating on the very Olympics where he

should have mounted the rostrum. It had been a start. Simultaneously,

he'd worked to establish his reputation as a tireless worker for

charity, a man who would never allow his fame to stand in the way of

helping people less fortunate than himself.





Now, he was bigger than all the fools who'd been so ready to write him

off. He'd charmed and chatted his way to the front of the sports

presenters' ranks in a slash and burn operation of such devious

ruthlessness that some of his victims still didn't realize they'd been

calculatedly chopped off at the knees. Once he'd consolidated that

role, he'd presented a chat show that had topped the light entertainment

ratings for three years. When the fourth year saw it drop to third

place, he dumped the format and launched Vance's Visits.





The show claimed to be spontaneous. In fact, Jacko's arrival in the

midst of what his publicity called ' people living ordinary

lives' was invariably orchestrated with all the advance planning of a

royal visit but none of the attendant publicity. Otherwise he'd have

attracted bigger crowds than any of the discredited House of Windsor.





Especially if he'd turned up with the wife.





And still it wasn't enough.





Carol bought the coffees. It was a privilege of rank. She thought

about refusing to shell out for the chocolate biscuits on the basis that

nobody needed three Kitkats to get through a meeting with their DCI. But

she knew it would be misinterpreted, so she grinned and bore the

expense. She led the troops she'd chosen with care to a quiet corner

cut off from the rest of the canteen by an array of plastic parlour

palms. Detective Sergeant Tommy Taylor, Detective Constable Lee

Whitbread and Detective Constable DI Earnshaw had all impressed her with

their intelligence and determination. She might yet be proved wrong,

but these three officers were her private bet for the pick of Seaford

Central's CID.





"I'm not going to attempt to pretend this is a social chat so we can get

to know each other better," she announced, sharing the biscuits out

among the three of them. Di Earnshaw watched her,

eyes like currants in a suet pudding, hating the way her new boss

managed to look elegant in a linen suit with more creases than a

dosser's when she just looked lumpy in her perfectly pressed chain-store

skirt and jacket.





"Thank Christ for that," Tommy said, a grin slowly spreading. "I was

beginning to worry in case we'd got a guvnor who didn't understand the

importance of Tetley's Bitter to a well-run CID."





Carol's answering smile was wry. "It's Bradfield I came from,

remember?"





"That's why we were worried, ma'am," Tommy replied.





Lee snorted with suppressed laughter, turned it into a cough and

spluttered, "Sorry, ma'am."





"You will be," Carol said pleasantly. "I've got a task for you three.





I've been taking a good look at the over nights since I got here, and

I'm a bit concerned about the high incidence of unexplained fires and

query arsons that we've got on our ground. I spotted five query arsons

in the last month and when I made some checks with uniform, I found out

there have been another half-dozen unexplained outbreaks of fire."





"You always get that kind of thing round the docks," Tommy said,

casually shrugging big shoulders inside a baggy silk blouson that had

gone out of fashion a couple of years previously.





"I appreciate that, but I'm wondering if there's a bit more to it than

that. Agreed, a couple of the smaller blazes are obvious routine

cock-ups, but I'm wondering if there's something else going on here."





Carol left it dangling to see who would pick it up.





"A firebug, you mean, ma'am?" It was Di Earnshaw, the voice pleasant

but the expression bordering on the insolent.





"A serial arsonist, yes."





There was a momentary silence. Carol reckoned she knew what they were

thinking. The East Yorkshire force might be a new entity, but these

officers had worked this patch under the old regime. They were in with

the bricks, whereas she was the new kid in town, desperate to shine at

their expense. And they weren't sure whether to roll with it or try to

derail her. Somehow she had to persuade them that she was the star they

should be hitching their wagons to. "There's a pattern," she said.





"Empty premises, early hours of the morning. Schools, light industrial

units, warehouses. Nothing too big, nowhere there might be a night

watchman to put the mockers on it. But serious nevertheless. Big fires,

all of them.





They've caused a lot of damage and the insurance companies must be

hurting more than they like."





"Nobody's said owl about an arsonist on the rampage," Tommy remarked

calmly. "Usually, the firemen tip us the wink if they think there's

something a bit not right on the go."





"Either that or the local rag gives us a load of earache," Lee chipped

in through a mouthful of his second Kitkat. Lean as a whippet in spite

of the biscuits and the three sugars in his coffee, Carol noted. One to

watch for high-strung hyperactivity.





"Call me picky, but I prefer it when we're setting the agenda, not the

local hacks or the fire service," Carol said coolly. "Arson isn't a

Mickey Mouse crime. Like murder, it has terrible consequences. And

like murder, you've got a stack of potential motives. Fraud, the

destruction of evidence, the elimination of competition, revenge and

cover-up, at the "logical" end of the spectrum. And at the. screwed-up

end, we have the ones who do it for kicks and sexual gratification. Like

serial killers, they nearly always have their own internal logic that

they mistake for something that makes sense to the rest of us.





"Fortunately for us, serial murder is a lot less common than serial

arson. Insurers reckon a quarter of all the fires in the UK have been

set deliberately. Imagine if a quarter of all deaths were murder."





Taylor looked bored. Lee Whitbread stared blankly at her, his hand

halfway to the cigarette packet in front of him. Di Earnshaw was the

only one who appeared interested in making a contribution. "I've heard

it said that the incidence of arson is an index of the economic

prosperity of a country. The more arson there is, the worse the economy

is doing. Well, there's plenty unemployed round here," she said with

the air of someone who expects to be ignored.





"And that's something we should bear in mind," Carol said, nodding with

approval. "Now, this is what I want. A careful trawl through the over

nights for CID and uniform for the last six months to see what we come

up with. I want the victims re-interviewed to check if there are any

obvious common factors, like the same insurance company. Sort it out

among yourselves. I'll be having a chat with the fire chief before the

four of us reconvene in ... shall we say three days? Fine. Any

questions?"





"I could do the fire chief, ma'am," Di Earnshaw said eagerly. "I've had

dealings with him before."





"Thanks for the offer, Di, but the sooner I make his acquaintance, the

happier I'll feel."





Di Earnshaw's lips seemed to shrink inwards in disapproval, but she

merely nodded.





"You want us to drop our other cases?" Tommy asked.





Carol's smile was sharp as an ice pick. She'd never had a soft spot for

chancers. "Oh, please, Sergeant," she sighed. "I know what your

case-load is. Like I said at the start of this conversation, it's

Bradfield I came from. Seaford might not be the big city, but that's no

reason for us to operate at village bobby pace."





She stood up, taking in the shock in their faces. "I didn't come here

to fall out with people. But I will if I have to. If you think I'm a

hard bastard to work for, watch me. However hard you work, you'll see

me matching it. I'd like us to be a team. But we have to play my

rules."





Then she was gone. Tommy Taylor scratched his jaw. "That's us told,

then. Still think she's shag gable Lee?"





Di Earnshaw's thin mouth pursed. "Not unless you like singing

falsetto."





"I don't think you'd feel a lot like singing," Lee said. "Anybody want

that last Kitkat?"





Shaz rubbed her eyes and turned away from the computer screen. She'd

come in early so she could squeeze in a quick revision of the previous

day's software familiarization. Finding Tony at work on one of the

other terminals had been a bonus. He'd looked astonished to see her

walk through the door just after seven. "I thought I was the only

workaholic insomniac around here," he'd greeted her.





"I'm crap on computers," she'd said gruffly, trying to cover her

satisfaction at having him to herself. "I've always needed to work

twice as hard to keep up."





Tony's eyebrows had jumped. Cops didn't generally admit weaknesses to

an outsider. Either Shaz Bowman was even more unusual than he'd

initially appreciated or else he was finally losing his alien status. "I

thought everybody under thirty was a wizard on these," he said mildly.





"Sorry to disappoint you. I was behind the door when the anoraks were

being handed out," Shaz replied. She settled in front of her screen and

pushed up the sleeves of her cotton sweater. "First remember your

password," she muttered, wondering what he thought of her.





Two forces seethed under Shaz Bowman's calm surface, taking it in turns

to drive her. On the one hand, fear of failure gnawed at her,

undermining everything she was and all she achieved. When she looked in

the mirror, she never saw her good points, only the thinness of her lips

and the lack of definition in her nose. When she reviewed her

accomplishments, she saw only the places where she had fallen short, the

heights she had failed to scale. The countervailing force was her

ambition. Somehow, ever since she'd first begun to formulate the

ambitions that drove her, those goals had restored her damaged

self-confidence and shored up her vulnerabilities before they could

cripple her. When her ambition threatened to tip her over into

arrogance, somehow the fear would kick in at the crucial point, keeping

her human.





The setting up of the task force had coincided so perfectly with the

direction of her dreams, she couldn't help but feel the hand of fate in

it. That didn't mean that she could let up, however. Shaz's long-term

career plan meant she had to shine brighter than anyone else in this

task force. One of her tactics for achieving that was to pick Tony

Hill's brains like a master locksmith, extracting every scrap of

knowledge she could scavenge there while simultaneously worming her way

inside his de fences so that when she needed his help, he'd be willing

to provide it. As part of her approach, and because she was terrified

that otherwise she'd fall behind and make a fool of herself in a group

that she was convinced were all better than her, she was covertly taping

all the group sessions, listening to them over and over again whenever

she could. And now, luck had dropped a bonus opportunity into her lap.





So Shaz frowned and stared at the screen, working her way through the

lengthy process of filling out an offence report then setting in motion

its comparison against the details of all the previous crimes held in

the computer's memory banks. When Tony had slipped out of his seat,

she'd vaguely registered the movement, but forced herself to carry on

working. The last thing she wanted was for him to think she was trying

to ingratiate herself.





The intensity of the concentration she imposed upon herself was

sufficient for her not to notice when he came back in through the door

behind her desk until her subconscious registered a faint masculine

smell which it identified as his. It took all her willpower not to

react. Instead, she carried on striking keys until his hand cleared the

edge of her peripheral vision and placed a carton of coffee topped with

a Danish on the desk beside her. "Time for a break?"





So she'd rubbed her eyes and abandoned the screen. "Thanks," she said.





"You're welcome. Anything you're not clear about? I'll take you

through it, if you want."





Still she held back. Don't snatch at it, she cautioned herself. She

didn't want to use up her credit with Tony Hill until she absolutely had

to, and preferably not before she'd been able to offer him something

helpful in return. "It's not that I don't understand it," she said.





"It's just that I don't trust it."





Tony smiled, enjoying her defensive stubbornness. "One of those kids

who demanded empirical proof that two and two were always going to be

four?"





A prick of delight that she'd entertained him, quickly stifled. Shaz

moved the Danish and opened the coffee. "I've always been in love with

proof. Why do you think I became a cop?"





Tony's smile was lopsided and knowing. "I could speculate. It's quite

a proving ground you've chosen here."





"Not really. The ground's already been broken. The Americans have been

doing it for so long they've not only got manuals, they've got movies

about it. It's just taken us forever to catch on, as per usual. But

you're one of the ones who forced the issue, so there's nothing left for

us to prove." Shaz took a huge bite of her Danish, nodding in quiet

approval as she tasted the apricot glaze on the flaky pastry.





"Don't you believe it," Tony said wryly, moving back to his own

terminal. "The backlash has only just started. It's taken long enough

to get the police to accept we can provide useful help, but already the

media hacks who were treating us profilers like gods a couple of years

ago are jumping all over our shortcomings. They oversold us, so now

they have to blame us for not living up to a set of expectations they

created in the first place."





"I don't know," Shaz said. "The public only remember the big successes.





That case you did in Bradfield last year. The profile was right on the

button. The police knew exactly where to go looking when it came to the

crunch." Oblivious to the permafrost that had settled over Tony's face,

Shaz continued enthusiastically. "Are you going to do a session on

that? We've all heard the grapevine version, but there's next to

nothing in the literature, even though it's obvious you did a textbook

job on the profile."





"We won't be covering that case," he said flatly.





Shaz looked up sharply and realized where her eagerness had beached her.





She'd blown it this time, in spades. "I'm sorry," she said quietly. "I

get carried away, and tact and diplomacy, they're history. I wasn't

thinking." Thick git, she berated herself silently. If he'd had the

therapy he would have needed after that particular nightmare, the last

thing he'd want would be to expose the details to avid prurience, even

if it was masquerading as legitimate scientific interest.





"You don't have to apologize, Shaz," Tony said wearily. "You're right,

it is a key case. The reason we won't be covering it is that I can't

talk about it without feeling like a freak. You'll all have to forgive

me. Maybe one day you'll catch a case that leaves you feeling the same

way. For your sake, I sincerely hope not." He looked down at his

Danish as if it were an alien artefact and pushed it to one side,

appetite dead as the past was supposed to be.





Shaz wished she could rerun the tape, pick up the conversation at the

point where he'd put the coffee down on her desk and there was still the

possibility of using the moment to build a bridge. "I'm really sorry,

Dr. Hill," she said inadequately.





He looked up and forced a thin smile. "Truly, Shaz, there's no need.





And can we drop the





"Dr. Hill" bit? I meant to bring it up during

yesterday's session, but it slipped my mind. I don't want you all

feeling that I'm the teacher and you're the class. At the moment, I'm

the group leader simply because I've been doing this for a while. Before

long, we'll all be working side by side, and there's no point in having

barriers between us. So it's Tony from now on in, OK?"





"You got it, Tony." Shaz searched for the message in his eyes and his

words and, satisfied it contained genuine forgiveness, wolfed the rest

of her Danish and returned to her screen. She couldn't do it while he

was here, but next time she was in the computer room alone, she intended

to use her Internet access to pull up the newspaper archives and check

out all the reports of the Bradfield serial killer case. She'd read most

of them at the time, but that had been before she'd met Tony Hill and

everything had changed. Now, she had a special interest. By the time

she was finished, she'd know enough about Tony Hill's most public

profile to write the book that, for reasons she still couldn't

understand, had never been written. After all, she was a detective,

wasn't she?





Carol Jordan fiddled with the complicated chrome coffee maker, a

housewarming present from her brother Michael when she'd moved to

Seaford. She'd been luckier than most people caught in the housing

market slump. She hadn't had far to look for a buyer for her half of

the warehouse flat she and Michael owned; the barrister he'd recently

been sharing his bedroom with had been so eager to buy her out that

Carol had begun to wonder if she'd been even more of a gooseberry than

she'd imagined.





Now she had this low stone cottage on the side of the hill that rose

above the estuary almost directly opposite Seaford; a place of her own.





Well, almost, she corrected herself, reminded by the hard skull

head-butting her shin. "OK, Nelson," she said, stooping to scratch the

black cat's ears. "I hear what you're saying." While the coffee

brewed, she scooped out a bowl of cat food to a rapture of purring

followed by the sloppy sound of Nelson inhaling his breakfast. She

walked through to the living room to enjoy the panorama of the estuary

and the improbably slender arc of the suspension bridge. Gazing out

across the misty river where the bridge appeared to float without

connection to the land, she planned her coming encounter with the fire

chief. Nelson walked in, tail erect, and jumped without pause straight

on to the window sill where he stretched out, arching his head back

towards Carol and demanding affection. Carol stroked his dense fur and

said, "I only get one chance to convince this guy that I know arse from

elbow, Nelson. I need him on my side. God knows, I need somebody on my

side."





Nelson batted her hand with his paw, as if responding directly to her

words. Carol swallowed the rest of her coffee and got to her feet in a

movement as smooth as the cat's. One of the advantages she'd soon found

with a DCI's office hours was that she actually managed to use her gym

membership more than once a month, and she was already feeling the

benefit in firmer muscle tone and better aerobic fitness. It would have

been a bonus to have someone to share it with, but that wasn't why she

did it. She did it for herself, because it made her feel good. She took

pride in her body, revelling in its strength and mobility.





An hour later, enduring the tour of the central fire station, she





was glad of her fitness as she struggled to keep pace with the long legs

of the local chief of operations, Jim Pendlebury. "You seem to be

better organized here than CID ever manages," Carol said, as they

finally made it to his office. "You'll have to share the secret of your

efficiency."





"We've had so much cost-cutting, we've really had to streamline

everything we do," he told her. "We used to have all our stations

staffed round the clock with a complement of full-time officers, but it

really wasn't cost effective. I know a lot of the lads grumbled about

it, but a couple of years back we shifted to a mix of part-time and

full-time officers. It took a few months to shake down, but it's been a

huge advantage to me in management terms."





Carol pulled a face. "Not a solution that would work for us."





Pendlebury shrugged. "I don't know. You could have a core staff who

dealt with the routine stuff and a hit squad that you used as and when

you needed them."





"That's sort of what we have already," Carol said drily. "The core

staff is called the night shift and the hit squad are the day teams.





Unfortunately, it never gets quiet enough to stand any of them down."





With part of her mind, Carol added to her mental profile of the fire

chief as they spoke. In conversation, his straight dark eyebrows

crinkled and jutted above his blue-grey eyes. Considering how much time

he must spend flying a desk, his skin looked surprisingly weathered, the

creases round his eyes showing white when he wasn't smiling or frowning.





Probably a part-time sailor or estuary fisherman, she guessed. As he

dipped his head to acknowledge something she'd said, she could see a few

silver hairs straggling among his dark curls. So, probably a few years

the far side of thirty, Carol thought, revising her initial estimate.





She had a habit of analysing new acquaintances in terms of how their

description would read on a police bulletin. She'd never actually had

to produce a photo fit of someone she'd encountered, but she was

confident her practice would have made her the best possible witness for

the police artist to work with.





"Now you've seen the operation, I take it you're a bit more willing to

accept that when we say a fire's a query arson, we're not talking

absolute rubbish?" Pendlebury's tone was light, but his eyes challenged

hers.





"I never doubted what you were telling us," she said calmly. "What





I doubted was whether we were taking it as seriously as we should." She

snapped open the locks on her briefcase and took out her file. "I'd like

to go through the details on these incidents with you, if you can spare

me the time."





He cocked his head to one side. "Are you saying what I think you're

saying?"





"Now that I've seen the way you run your operation, I can't believe the

idea of a serial arsonist hasn't already crossed your mind."





He tugged at the lobe of one ear, sizing her up. Finally, he said, "I

was wondering when one of your lot would notice."





Carol breathed out hard through her nose. "It might have been helpful

if we'd been given a nudge in the right direction. You are the experts,

after all."





"Your predecessor didn't think so," Pendlebury said. He might as well

have been commenting on the price of fish. All of the enthusiasm he'd

shown earlier for his job had vanished behind an impassive mask, leaving

Carol to draw her own conclusions. They didn't make a pretty picture.





She placed the file on Pendlebury's desk and flipped it open. "That was

then. This is now. Are you telling me you've got query arsons that

predate this one?"





He glanced down at the top sheet in the file and snorted. "How far back

would you like to start?"





Tony Hill sat alone at his desk, ostensibly preparing for the following

day's seminar with the task force officers. But his thoughts were far

away from those details. He was thinking about the psychopathic minds

out there, already set in the moulds that would generate pain and misery

for people they didn't even know yet.





There had long been a theory among psychologists that discounted the

existence of evil, ascribing the worst excesses of the most sociopathic

abductors, torturers and killers to a linked series of circumstances and

events in their past that culminated in one final stress-laden event

that catapulted them over the edge of what civilized society would

tolerate. But that had never entirely satisfied Tony. It begged the

question of why some people with almost identical backgrounds of abuse

and deprivation went on not to become psychopaths but to lead useful,

fruitful lives, integrated into society.





Now the scientists were talking about a genetic answer, a fracture in

the DNA code that might explain this divergence. Somehow, Tony found

that answer too pat. It seemed as much of a cop-out as the

old-fashioned notion that some men were simply evil and that was that.





It evaded responsibility in a way he found repugnant.





It was an issue that had always held particular resonance for him. He

knew the reason he was so good at what he did. It was because for so

many of the steps down the road that his prey had taken, he had walked

in their footprints. But at some point he could never quite identify

there had come a parting of the ways. Where they became hunters at

first hand, he became a hunter at second hand, tracking them down once

they had crossed the line. Yet his life still held echoes of theirs.





The fantasies that drove them were about sex and death; his fantasies

about sex and death were called profiling. They were chillingly close.





It sometimes seemed chicken and egg to Tony. Had his impotence started

because he was afraid the unfettered expression of his sexuality might

lead him to violence and death? Or had his knowledge of how often the

sexual urge led to killing worked on his body to make him sexually

inadequate? He doubted he would ever know. However the circuit worked,

it was undeniable that his work had profoundly affected his life.





For no apparent reason, he recalled the spark of uncomplicated

enthusiasm he'd seen in Shaz Bowman's eyes. He could remember feeling

that way too, before his fascination had been tempered by exposure to

the horrors humans could inflict upon each other. Maybe he could use

what he knew to give his team better armour than he'd had. If he

achieved nothing else with them, that alone would be worthwhile.





In another part of the city, Shaz clicked her mouse button and closed

down her software. On autopilot, she switched off her computer and

stared unseeingly as the screen faded to black. When she'd decided to

explore the resources of the Internet as her first stop on the road to

disinterring Tony Hill's past, she'd expected to come across a handful

of references and, if she was lucky, a set of cuttings in one of the

newspaper archives.





Instead, when she'd input





"Tony, Hill, Bradfield, killer' as key words

in the search engine, she'd stumbled upon a dark side treasure trove of

references to the case that had put his face on the front pages a year

before. There was a grisly handful of websites entirely devoted to

serial killers which incorporated Tony's headline case. Elsewhere,

journalists and commentators had posted their articles on that specific

case on their personal websites. There was even a perverse rogues'

gallery, a montage of photographs of the faces of the world's most

notorious serial killers. Tony's target, the so-called Queer Killer,

featured in more than one guise in the bizarre exhibit.





Shaz had downloaded everything she could find and had spent the rest of

the evening reading it. What had started out as an academic exercise to

figure out what made Tony Hill tick had left her sick at heart.





The facts were not in dispute. The naked bodies of four men had been

dumped in gay cruising areas of Bradfield. The victims had been

tortured before death with a cruelty that was almost beyond

comprehension. After death, they had been sexually mutilated, washed

clean and abandoned like trash.





As a last resort, Tony had been brought in as a consultant, working with

Detective Inspector Carol Jordan to develop a profile. They were moving

close to their target when hunter became hunted. The killer wanted Tony

for a human sacrifice. Captured and trussed, he was on the point of

becoming victim number five, the torture engine in place, his body

screaming in pain. He was saved in the nick of time not by the arrival

of the cavalry but by his own verbal skills, honed over years of working

with mentally disturbed offenders. But to claim his life, he'd had to

kill his captor.





As she'd read, Shaz's heart had filled with horror, her eyes with tears.





Cursed with enough imagination to create a picture of the hell Tony had

lived through, she found herself sucked into the nightmare of that final

showdown where the roles of killer and victim were irrevocably reversed.





The scenario made her shudder with fear and trepidation.





How had he begun to live with that? she marvelled. How did he sleep?





How could he close his eyes and not be assailed with images beyond most

people's imagination or tolerance? Little wonder that he wasn't

prepared to use his own past to teach them how to manage their futures.





The miracle was that he was still willing to practise a craft that must

have pushed him to the edge of madness.





And how would she have coped if she'd been the one in his shoes?





Shaz dropped her head into her hands and, for the first time since she'd

heard of the task force, asked herself if she hadn't perhaps made a

terrible mistake.





Betsy mixed a drink for the journalist. Heavy on the gin, light on the

tonic, a quarter of a lemon squeezed so that the tartness of the juice

would cut the oily sweetness of the gin and disguise its potency. One

of the principal reasons that Micky's image had survived untainted by

scandal was Betsy's insistence that they trust no one outside the trio

that held their secret close. Suzy Joseph might be all smiles and

charm, filling the airy sitting room with the tinkle of her laugh and

the smoke from her menthol cigarettes, but she was still a journalist.





Even if she represented the most accommodating and sycophantic of the

colour magazines, Betsy knew that among her drinking cronies there would

be more than one tabloid hack ready to dip a hand in a pocket for the

right piece of gossip. So Suzy would be plied generously with drink

today. By the time she came to sit down to lunch with Jacko and Micky,

her sharp eyes would be blurred round the edges.





Betsy perched on the arm of a sofa whose squashy cushions engulfed the

anorectic ally thin journalist. She could keep an eye on her easily

from there, while Suzy would have to make a deliberate and obvious shift

of position to get Betsy in her line of sight. That also made it

possible for Betsy to signal caution to Micky without being seen. This

is such a lovely room," Suzy gushed. "So light, so cool. You don't

often see something so tasteful, so elegant, so -appropriate. And

believe me, I've been in more of these Holland Park mansions than the

local estate agents!" She twisted round awkwardly and said to Betsy in

the same tones she'd have used to a waiter, "You have made sure the

caterers have all they need?"





Betsy nodded. "Everything's under control. They were delighted with

the kitchen."





"I'm sure they were." Suzy was back with Micky, Betsy dismissed again.





"Did you design the dining room yourself, Micky? So stylish! So very,

very you\ So perfect for Junket with Joseph." She leaned forward to

stub out her cigarette, giving Betsy an unwanted view of a creped

cleavage that fake tan and expensive body treatments couldn't entirely

disguise.





Being commended on her taste by a woman who could without any indication

of shame wear a brash scarlet and black Moschino suit designed for

someone twenty years younger and an entirely different shape was a

double-edged compliment, Micky felt. But she simply smiled again and

said, "Actually, it was mostly Betsy's inspiration. She's the one with

the taste round here. I just tell her what I want the ambience to be

like, and she sorts it out."





Suzy's reflexive smile held no warmth. Another wasted opening; nothing

quotable there, it seemed to say. Before she could try again, Jacko

strode into the room, his broad shoulders in their perfect tailoring

thrusting forward so he appeared like a flying wedge. He ignored Suzy's

fluttering twitters and made straight for Micky, descending upon her

with one enveloping arm, hugging her close, though not actually kissing.





"Sweetheart," he said, his professional, public voice carrying the thrum

of a cello chord. "I'm sorry I'm late." He half-turned and leaned back

against the sofa, giving Suzy the full benefit of his perfectly groomed

smile. "You must be Suzy," he said. "We're thrilled to have you here

with us today."





Suzy lit up like Christmas. "I'm thrilled to be here," she gushed, her

breathy voice losing its veneer and revealing the unmistakable West

Midlands intonation she'd devoted herself to burying. The effect Jacko

still had on women never ceased to astonish Betsy. He could turn the

sourest bitch Barsac sweet. Even the tired cynicism of Suzy Joseph, a

woman who had the same relationship to celebrity as beetles to dung,

wasn't sufficient armour against his charm. "Junket with Joseph doesn't

often give me the chance to spend time with people I genuinely admire,"

she added.





"Thank you," Jacko said, all smiles. "Betsy, should we be heading

through to the dining room?"





She glanced at the clock. "That would be helpful," she said. "The

caterer wants to start serving round about now." Jacko jumped to his

feet and waited attentively for Micky to get up and move towards the

door. He ushered Suzy ahead of him too, turning back to roll his eyes

upwards in an expression of bored horror for Betsy's benefit. Stifling

a giggle, she followed them to the dining-room door, saw them seated and

left them to it. Sometimes there were distinct benefits in not being

the official consort, she reminded herself as she settled down with her

bread and cheese and The World at One.





There was no such relief for Micky, who had to pretend she didn't even

notice Suzy's vapid flirting with her husband. Micky tuned out- the

boring ritual dance going on next to her and concentrated on freeing the

last morsels of lobster from a claw.





A change in Suzy's tone alerted her that the conversation had shifted a

gear. Time for work, Micky realized. "Of course, I've read in the

cuttings how you two got together," Suzy was saying, her hand covering

Jacko's real one. She wouldn't have been so quick to pat the other,

Micky reflected grimly. "But I need to hear it from your own lips."





Here we go, Micky thought. The first part of the recital was always

hers. "We met in hospital," she began.





By the middle of the second week, the task force office felt like home

to the entire team. It was no accident that all six of the junior

officers chosen for the squad were single and unattached, according both

to their records and the unofficial background checks that Commander

Paul Bishop had pursued in canteens and police clubs up and down the

country. Tony had deliberately wanted a group of people who, uprooted

from their former lives, would be thrown together and forced to develop

team spirit. That at least was something he seemed to have got right,

he thought, looking around the seminar room where six heads were bowed

over a set of photocopied police files he'd prepared for them.





Already, they had started to form alliances, and so far they'd done well

to avoid the personality clashes that could split a group beyond

salvaging. Interestingly, the associations were flexible, not fixed in

rigid pairs. Although some affinities were stronger than others, there

was no attempt to make any of them exclusive.





Shaz was the one exception, as far as Tony could tell. It wasn't that

there was a problem between her and the others. It was more that she

held herself apart from the easy intimacy that was growing between the

rest. She joined in the jokes, took part in the communal brainstorming,

but somehow there was always distance between her and her fellows. He

sensed in her a passion for success that the rest of the squad lacked.





They were ambitious, no denying that, but with Shaz it went deeper. She

was driven, her need burning inside her and consuming any trace of

frivolity. She was always first there in the mornings and last out at

night, eagerly snatching any opportunity to get Tony to expand on

whatever he'd been talking about last. But her very need for success

made her correspondingly more vulnerable to failure. What he recognized

as a desperate desire for approval was a blade that could be used

against her with devastating effect. If she didn't learn to drop her de

fences so she could use her empathy, she'd never achieve her potential

as a profiler. It was his job to find a way of making her feel she

could relax her vigilance without risking too much damage.





At that moment, Shaz looked up, her eyes direct on his. There was no

embarrassment, no awkwardness. She simply stared for a moment then

returned to what she was reading. It was as if she had raided his

memory banks for a missing piece of information and, having found it,

had logged off again. Slightly unnerved, Tony cleared his throat. "Four

separate incidents of sexual assault and rape. Any comments?"





The group had moved beyond awkward silences and polite hanging back to

give others a chance. In what was becoming an established pattern, Leon

Jackson dived straight in. "I think the strongest link is in the

victims. I read somewhere that serial rapists tend to rape within their

own age group, and all these women were in their mid-twenties. Plus they

all have short blonde hair and they all took time and trouble to stay

fit. You got two joggers, one hockey player, one rower. They all did

sports where it wouldn't be hard for a weirdo stalker to watch them

without attracting any attention."





"Thanks, Leon. Any other comments?"





Simon, already the devil's advocate designate of the group, weighed in,

his Glasgow accent and habit of staring out from under his heavy dark

eyebrows multiplying the aggression factor. "You could argue that

that's because the kind of woman who indulges in these kind of sports is

exactly the sort that's confident enough to be out in risky places on

her own, convinced it's never going to happen to her. It could easily

be two, three or even four attackers. In which case, bringing in a

profiler is going to be a total waste of time."





Shaz shook her head. "It's not just the victims," she stated firmly.





"If you read their evidence, in each case their eyes were covered during

the attack. In each case, they mention that their assailant verbally

abused them continually while he was actually assaulting them. That's

more than sheer coincidence."





Simon wasn't ready to give up. "Come on, Shaz," he protested. "Any

bloke who's so powerless he needs to resort to rape to feel good about

himself is going to need to talk himself up to it. And as for their

eyes being covered there's nothing in common there except with the first

and third where he used their own headbands. Look' he waved the papers

'case number two, he pulled her





T-shirt over her head and tied a knot in it. Case number four, the

rapist had a roll of packing tape that he wound round her head. Way

different." He sat back, a good-natured grin defusing the force of his

words.





Tony grinned. The perfectly contrived lead into the next subject.





Thanks, Simon. Today, I'm going to hand out your first assignment, the

preamble to which is the beginner's guide to signature versus MO.





Anybody know what I'm talking about?"





Kay Hallam, the other woman on the team, raised her hand half a dozen

inches and looked questioningly at Tony. He nodded. She tucked her

light brown hair behind her ears in a gesture he'd come to recognize as

Kay's keynote mechanism for looking feminine and vulnerable to defuse

criticism, particularly when she was about to make a point she was

absolutely sure of. "MO is dynamic, signature is static," she said.





"That's one way of putting it," Tony said. "However, it's probably a

bit too technical for the plods among us," he added with a grin,

pointing his finger one by one at the other five. He pushed back his

chair and started moving restlessly round the room as he talked. "MO

means modus operandi. Latin. The way of doing. When we use it in a

criminal context, we mean the series of actions that the perpetrator

committed in the process of achieving his goal, the crime. In the early

days of profiling, police officers, and to a large degree psychologists,

were very literal about their idea of a serial offender. It was somebody

who did pretty much the same things every time to achieve pretty much

the same results. Except that they usually showed escalation, moving,

say, from assaulting a prostitute to beating a woman's brains out with a

hammer.





"As we discovered more, though, we realized we weren't the only ones

capable of learning from our mistakes. We were dealing with criminals

who were intelligent and imaginative enough to do exactly the same. That

meant we had to get our heads round the idea that the MO was something

that could change quite drastically from one offence to the next because

the offender found that a particular course of action wasn't very

effective. So he'd adapt. His first murder could be a strangulation,

but maybe our killer feels that took too long, was too noisy, frightened

him too much, stressed him rather than allowing him to enjoy his

fulfilment. Next time out, he smashes her skull in with a crowbar. Too

messy. So number three,

he stabs. And the investigators write them off as three separate

killings because the MO looks so different.





"What doesn't change is what we call, for the sake of giving it a name,

the signature. The sig, for short." Tony stopped pacing and leaned

against the window sill. "The sig doesn't change because it's the

raison d'etre of the offence. It's what gives the perpetrator his sense

of satisfaction.





"So what does this signature consist of? Well, it's all the bits of

behaviour that exceed what is actually necessary to commit the crime.





The ritual of the offence. To satisfy the perpetrator, the signature

elements have to be acted out every time he goes out on a mission, and

they have to be performed in the same style every time. Examples of

signature in a killer might be things like: does he strip the victim?





Does he make a neat pile of the victim's clothes? Does he use cosmetics

on the victim after death? Is he having sex with the victim postmortem?





Is he performing some kind of ritualistic mutilation like cutting off

their breasts or penises or ears?"





Simon looked faintly queasy. Tony wondered how many murder victims he'd

seen so far. He would have to grow a thicker skin or else be prepared

to put up with the jibes of colleagues who would enjoy watching the

profiler lose his lunch over another vitiated victim. "A serial

offender must accomplish signature activities to fulfill himself, to

make the act meaningful," Tony continued. "It's about meeting a variety

of needs to dominate, to inflict pain, to provoke distinct responses, to

achieve sexual release. The means can vary, but the end remains

constant."





He took a deep breath and tried to keep his mind off the very particular

variations he'd seen at first hand. "For a killer whose pleasure comes

from inflicting pain and hearing victims scream, it's immaterial whether

he ... " his voice faltered as irresistible images climbed into his

head. "Whether he ... " They were all looking at him now and he

desperately struggled to look momentarily distracted rather than

shipwrecked. "Whether he ... ties them up and cuts them, or whether he

... "





"Whether he whips them with wire," Shaz said, her voice casual, her

expression reassuring.





"Exactly," Tony said, recovering fast. "Nice to see you've got such a

tender imagination, Shaz."





"Typical woman, eh?" Simon said with a grunt of laughter.





Shaz looked faintly embarrassed. Before the joke could escalate, Tony

continued. "So you might have two bodies whose physical conditions are

very different. But when you examine the scenario, things have been

done that were additional to the act of killing and the ultimate

gratification has been the same. That's your signature."





He paused, his control firmly in place again, and looked around,

checking he was taking them all with him. One of the men looked

dubious. "At its most simplistic," he said, ' about petty

criminals. You've got a burglar who steals videos. That's all he goes

for, just videos, because he's got a fence who gives him a good deal. He

robs terraced houses, going in through the back yard. But then he reads

in the local paper that the police are warning people about the video

thief who comes in through the back yard, and they're setting up

neighbourhood watch teams to keep a special eye on back alleys. So he

abandons his terraced houses and instead he goes for between-the-wars

semis and gets in through the side windows in the downstairs hall. He's

changed his MO. But he still only nicks the videos. That's his

signature."





The doubter's face cleared. Now he'd grasped it. Gratified, Tony

picked up a stack of papers divided into six bundles. "So we have to

learn to be inclusive when we're considering the possibility of a serial

offender. Think "linking through similarity", rather than "discounting

through difference"."





He stood up again and walked around among their work tables, gearing

himself up to the crucial part of the session. "Some senior police

officers and profilers have a hypothesis that's more confidential than

the secrets of the Masonic square," he said, capturing their attention

again. "We believe there could be as many as half a dozen undetected

serial killers who have been operating in Britain over the past ten

years. Some could have claimed upwards of ten victims. Thanks to the

motorway network and the historic reluctance of police forces to

exchange information, nobody has sat down and made the crucial

connections. Once we're up and running, this will be something we'll be

considering as and when we have time and staff available to look at it."





Raised eyebrows and muttering filled his momentary pause.





"So what we're doing here is a dummy run," Tony explained. "Thirty

missing teenagers. They're all real cases, culled from a dozen forces

over the last seven years. You've got a week to examine the cases in

your spare time. Then you'll have the chance to present your own

theories as to whether any of them have sufficient common factors to

give us grounds for suspicion that they might be the work of a serial

offender." He handed them each a bundle of photostats, giving them a

few moments to flick through.





"I should emphasize that this is merely an exercise," he cautioned them,

walking back to his seat. "There's no reason to suppose that any of

these girls or lads has been abducted or killed. Some of them may well

be dead now, but that's probably got more to do with the attrition of

life on the street than foul play. The common factor that links them is

that none of these kids were regarded by their families as the kind who

would run away. The families all claimed the missing teenagers were

happy at home, there had been no serious arguments and there were no

significant problems with school. Although one or two of them had some

history of involvement with the police or social services, there weren't

any current difficulties at the time of the disappearances. However,

none of the missing kids subsequently made contact with home. In spite

of that, it's likely that most of them made for London and the bright

lights."





He took a deep breath and turned to face them. "But there could be

another scenario lurking in there. If there is, it'll be our job to

find it."





Excitement started like a slow burn in Shaz's gut, powerful enough to

dim the memories of what she'd read about Tony's last close encounter

with a killer. This was her first chance. If there were undiscovered

murder victims out there, she would find them. More than that, she

would be their advocate. And their avenger.





Criminals are often caught by accident. He knew that; he'd seen

programmes about it on the TV. Dennis Nilsen, killer of fifteen

homeless young men, found out because human flesh blocked the drains;

Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, despatcher of thirteen women,

nicked because he'd stolen a set of number plates to disguise his car;

Ted Bundy, necrophiliac murderer of as many as forty young women,

finally arrested for speeding past a police car at night with no lights.





This knowledge didn't frighten him, but it added an extra fris son to

the adrenaline buzz that inevitably accompanied his fire-setting. His

motives might be very different from theirs, but the risk was almost as

great. The once soft leather driving gloves were always damp with his

nervous sweat.





Somewhere around one in the morning, he parked his car in a carefully

chosen spot. He never left it on a residential street,

understanding the insomnia of the elderly and the late-night revels of

the young. Instead, he chose the car parks of DIY stores, the waste

ground beside factories, the fore courts of garages closed for the

night. Secondhand car pitches were best; nobody noticed an extra car

there for an hour or two in the small hours.





He never carried a holdall either, sensing it to be suspicious at that

time of night. A policeman spotting him would have no cause to think

he'd been out burgling. And even if a bored night-beat bobby fancied

the diversion of getting him to turn out his pockets, there wouldn't be

much to arouse suspicion. A length of string, an old-fashioned

cigarette lighter with a brass case, a packet of cigarettes with two or

three missing, a dog-eared book of matches with a couple remaining,

yesterday's newspaper, a Swiss Army knife, a crumpled oil-stained

handkerchief, a small but powerful torch. If that was grounds for

arrest, the cells would be full every night.





He walked the route he'd memorized, staying close to the walls as he

moved silently down empty streets, his blank-soled bowling shoes making

no sound. After a few minutes, he came to a narrow alley which led to

the blind side of a small industrial estate he'd had his eye on for a

while. It had originally been a rope works and consisted of a group of

four turn-of-the-century brick buildings which had recently been

converted to their present uses. An auto electrician's sat next to an

upholstery workshop, opposite a plumbing supplier and a bakery that made

biscuits from a recipe allegedly as old as the York Mystery plays. He

reckoned anyone who got away with charging such ridiculous prices for a

poxy packet of gritty biscuits deserved to have their factory razed to

the ground, but there wasn't enough flammable material there for his

needs.





Tonight, the upholstery workshop was going to go up like a Roman candle.





Later, he'd thrill to the sight of yellow and crimson flames thrusting

their long spikes into the plumes of grey and brown smoke billowing up

from the blazing cloth and the wooden floors and beams of the elderly

building. But for now, he had to get inside.





He'd made his preparations earlier that day, dropping a carrier bag into

a rubbish bin by the side door of the workshop. Now he retrieved it and

took out the sink plunger and the tube of super glue He walked round

the outside of the building until he was outside the toilet window,

where he stuck the plunger to the window. He waited a few minutes to be

certain the contact adhesive had hardened then he gripped the plunger

with both hands, braced himself and gave a sharp tug. The glass broke

with a tiny tinkle, the fragments falling on the outside of the window,

just as they would if it had exploded from the heat. He tapped the

plunger smartly against the wall to shatter the circle of glass, leaving

only a thin ring still glued to the rubber. That didn't worry him; there

would be no reason for any forensic expert to reconstruct the window and

reveal a missing circle of glass at the heart of the shards. That done,

he was inside within a few minutes. There was, he knew, no burglar

alarm.





He took out the torch and flipped it quickly on and off to check his

position, then emerged into the corridor that led along the back of the

main work space. At the end, he recalled, were a couple of large

cardboard boxes of scrap material that local handicraft hobbyists bought

for coppers. No reason for fire investigators to doubt it was a place

where workers might hang out for a fly fag.





It was a matter of moments to construct his incendiary device. First he

opened up the cigarette lighter and rubbed the string with the wadding

which he'd previously saturated with lighter fluid. Then he put the

string at the centre of a bundle of half a dozen cigarettes held loosely

together with an elastic band. He placed his incendiary so that the

string fuse lay along the edge of the nearest cardboard box, then laid

the oily handkerchief beside it with some crumpled newspaper. Finally,

he lit the cigarettes. They would burn halfway down before the string

ignited. That in its turn would take a little while to get the boxes of

fabric smouldering. But by the time they'd caught hold, there wouldn't

be any stopping his fire. It was going to be some blaze.





He'd been saving this one up, knowing it would be a beauty. Rewarding,

in more ways than one.





Betsy checked her watch. Ten minutes more, then she would break up Suzy

Joseph's junket with a fictitious appointment for Micky. If Jacko

wanted to carry on charming, that was up to him. She suspected he'd

rather seize the opportunity to escape. He'd have finished filming the

latest Vance's Visit the night before, so he'd be off on one of his

charity stints at one of the specialist hospitals where he worked as a

volunteer counsellor and support worker. He'd be gone by mid-afternoon,

leaving her and Micky to a peaceful house and a weekend alone.





"Between Jacko and the Princess of Wales, you get no peace these days

when you've got a terminal illness," she said out loud. "I'm the lucky

one," she went on, moving from bureau to filing cabinet as she cleared

her desk in preparation for a guilt-free weekend. "I don't have to

listen to the Authorized Version for the millionth time." She imitated

Jacko's upbeat, dramatic intonation. '"I was lying there, contemplating

the wreck of my dreams, convinced I had nothing left to live for. Then,

out of the depths of my depression, I saw a vision." Betsy made the

sweeping gesture she'd seen Jacko deploy so often with his living arm. "





"This very vision of loveliness, in fact. There, by my hospital bed

stood the one thing I'd seen since the accident that made me realize

life might memories be worth living."





It was a tale that bore almost no relationship to the reality Betsy had

lived through. She remembered Micky's first encounter with Jacko, but

not because it had been the earth-shaking collision of two stars

recognizing their counterparts. Betsy's memories were very different

and far less romantic.





It was the first time Micky had been the lead outside broadcast reporter

on the main evening news bulletin. She'd been bringing millions of

eager viewers the first exclusive interview with Jacko Vance, hero of

the hottest human story on the networks. Betsy had watched the

broadcast at home alone, thrilled to see her lover the cynosure of ten

million pairs of eyes, hugging herself in delight.





The exhilaration hadn't lasted long. They'd been celebrating together

in the flickering glow of the video replay when the phone had

interrupted their pleasure. Betsy had answered, her voice exuberant

with happiness. The journalist who greeted her as Micky's girlfriend

drained all the joy from her. In spite of Betsy's frostily vehement

denials and Micky's scornful ridicule, both women knew their

relationship was poised on the edge of the worst kind of tabloid

exposure.





The patient campaign Micky had gone on to wage against the sneak tactics

of the hacks was as carefully planned and as ruthlessly executed as any

career move she'd ever made. Every night, two separate pairs of bedroom

curtains would be closed and lights turned on behind them. The lamps

would go off at staggered intervals, the one in the spare room

controlled by a timer that Betsy adjusted to a different hour each

night. Every morning, the curtains would be drawn back at diverse

times, each pair by the same hands that had closed them. The only

places the two women embraced were behind closed curtains out of the

line of sight of the window, or in the hallway, which was invisible from

outside. If both left the house at the same time, they parted at the

bottom of the steps with a cheerful wave and no bodily contact.





Giving the presumed watchers nothing to chew on would have been enough

to make most people feel secure. But Micky preferred a more proactive

approach. If the tabloids wanted a story, she'd make sure they had one.





It would simply have to be a more exciting, more credible and more sexy

story than the one they thought they had. She cared far too much for

Betsy to take chances with her lover's peace of mind or their

relationship.





The morning after the ominous phone call, Micky had a spare hour. She

drove to the hospital where Jacko was a patient and charmed her way past

the nurses. Jacko seemed pleased to see her, and not only because she

came armed with the gift of a miniature AM/FM radio complete with

earphones. Although he was still taking strong medication for his pain,

he was alert and receptive to any distraction from the tedium of life in

his side ward. She spent half an hour chatting lightly about everything

except the accident and the amputation, then left, leaning over to give

him a friendly peck on the forehead. It had been no hardship; to her

surprise, she'd found herself warming to Jacko. He wasn't the arrogant

macho man she'd expected, based on her past experience with male

sporting heroes. Nor, even more surprisingly, was he wallowing in

self-pity. Micky's visits might have started out as cynical

self-interest, but within a very short space of time she was sucked in,

first by her respect for his stoicism, then by an unexpected pleasure in

his company. He might be more interested in himself than in her, but at

least he managed to be entertaining and witty with it.





Five days and four visits later, Jacko asked the question she'd been

waiting for. "Why do you keep visiting me?"





Micky shrugged. "I like you?"





Jacko's eyebrows rose and fell, as if to say, "That's not enough."





She sighed and made a conscious effort to hold his speculative gaze. "I

have always been cursed with an imagination. And I understand the drive

to be successful. I've worked my socks off to get where I am. I've made

sacrifices and I've sometimes had to treat people in a way that, in

other circumstances, I'd be ashamed of. But getting to where I want to

be is the most important thing in my life. I can imagine how I would

feel if a chain of circumstances outside my control cost me my goal. I

guess what I feel for you is empathy."





"Meaning what?" he asked, his face giving nothing away.





"Sympathy without pity?"





He nodded, as if satisfied. "The nurse reckoned it was because you

fancied me. I knew she was wrong."





Micky shrugged. It was all going so much better than she'd anticipated.





"Don't disillusion her. People distrust motives they can't understand."





"You're so right," he said, an edge of bitterness in his voice that she

hadn't heard there before, in spite of the ample reason. "But

understanding doesn't always make it possible to accept something."





There was more, much more behind his words. But Micky knew when to

leave well alone. There would be plenty of opportunity to broach that

subject again. When she left that day, she was careful to make sure the

nurse saw her kiss him goodbye. If this story was to be credible, it

needed to leak out, not be broadcast. And from her own journalistic

experience, gossip spread through a hospital faster than legionnaire's

disease. From there to the wider community only took one carrier.





When she arrived a week later, Jacko seemed remote. Micky sensed

violent emotions barely held in check, but couldn't be sure what those

feelings were. Eventually, tired of conducting a monologue rather than

a conversation, she said, "Are you going to tell me or are you just

going to let your blood pressure rise till you have a stroke?"





For the first time that afternoon, he looked directly into her face.





Momentarily, she thought he was in the grip of fever, then she realized

it was a fury so powerful that she couldn't imagine how he could contain

it. He was so angry he could barely speak, she realized as she watched

him struggle to find the words. At last, he conquered his rage by sheer

effort of will and said, "My fucking so-called fiancee," he growled.





"Jillie?" Micky hoped she'd got the name right. They'd met briefly one

afternoon as Micky had been leaving. She had the impression of a

slender dark-haired beauty who managed sultry rather than tarty by an

inch.





"Bitch," he hissed, the tendons on his neck tensing like cords beneath

the tanned skin.





"What's happened, Jacko?"





He closed his eyes and breathed deeply, his wide chest expanding and

emphasizing the asymmetry of his once perfect upper body. "Dumped me,"

he managed at last, his voice thick with anger.





"No," Micky breathed. "Oh, Jacko." She reached out and touched the

tight fist with her fingers. She could actually feel the pulse beating

in his flesh, so tightly was his hand clenched. His rage was

phenomenal, Micky thought, yet his control seemed in no real danger of

slipping.





"Says she can't cope with it." He gave a grating bark of cynical

laughter. "She can't cope with it? How the fuck does she think it is

for me?"





"I'm sorry," Micky said inadequately.





"I saw it in her face, the first time she visited after the accident.





No, I knew before that. I knew because she didn't come near me that

first day. It took her two days to get her arse in here." His voice

was harsh and guttural, the heavy words falling like blocks of stone.





"When she did come, she couldn't stand the sight of me. It was all over

her face. I repelled her. All she could see was what I wasn't any

more." He pulled his fist away and pounded it on the bed.





"More fool her."





His eyes opened and he glared at her. "Don't you start. All I need is

one more silly bitch patronizing me. I've had that fucking nurse with

her artificial cheerfulness all over me. Just don't!"





Micky didn't flinch. She'd won too many confrontations with news

editors for that. "You should learn to recognize respect when you see

it," she flared back at him. "I'm sorry Jillie hasn't got what it takes

to see you through, but you're better off finding that out now than

further down the road."





Jacko looked astonished. For years now, the only person who'd spoken to

him with anything except nervous deference was his trainer. "What?" he

squawked, his anger displaced by baffled astonishment.





Micky continued regardless of his response. "What you have to decide

now is how you're going to play it."





"What?"





"It's not going to stay a secret between the two of you, is it? From

what you said, the nurse already knows. So by tea-time, it's going to

be, "Hold the front page." If you want, you can settle for being an

object of pity hero dumped by girlfriend because he's not a proper man

any more. You'll get the sympathy vote, and a fair chunk of the Great

British Public will spit on Jillie in the street. Alternatively, you

can get your retaliation in first and come out on top."





Jacko's mouth was open, but for a moment no words came. At last, he

said in a low voice that fellow members of the Olympic squad would have

recognized as a signal for flak jackets, "Go on."





"It's up to you. It depends whether you want people to see you as a

victim or a victor."





Micky's level stare felt as much of a challenge as anything that had

ever faced him on the field of competition. "What do you think?" he

snarled.





"I'm telling you, man, this is the sticks," Leon said, waving a chicken

pakora in a sweeping gesture that seemed to include not only the

restaurant but most of the West Riding of Yorkshire as well.





"You've obviously never been to Greenock on a Saturday night," Simon

said drily. "Believe me, Leon, that makes Leeds look positively

cosmopolitan."





"Nothing could make this place cosmopolitan," Leon protested.





"It's not that bad," Kay said. "It's very good for shopping." Even

outside the classroom, Shaz noticed, Kay slipped straight into the

conciliatory role, smoothing down her hair as she smoothed down the

rough edges in the conversations.





Simon groaned theatrically. "Oh please, Kay, don't feel you need to

glide effortlessly into bland womanly stuff. Go on, make my night, tell

me how terrific Leeds is for body-piercing."





Kay poked her tongue out at him.





"If you don't leave Kay alone, us women might well consider piercing

some treasured part of your anatomy with this beer bottle," Shaz said

sweetly, brandishing her Kingfisher.





Simon put his hands up. "OK. I'll behave, just as long as you promise

not to beat me with a chapati."





There was a moment's silence while the four police officers attacked

their starters. The Saturday night curry looked like becoming a regular

feature for the quartet, the other two preferring to return to their

former home turf rather than explore their new base. When Simon had

first suggested it, Shaz hadn't been sure if she wanted to bond that

closely with her colleagues. But Simon had been persuasive, and

besides, Commander Bishop had been ear-wigging and she wanted to avoid a

black mark for being uncooperative. So she'd agreed and, to her

surprise, she'd enjoyed herself, even though she had made her excuses

and left before the nightclub excursion that had followed. Now, three

weeks into the Job, she found she was actually looking forward to their

night out, and not just for the food.





Leon was first to clear his plate, as usual. "What I'm saying is, it's

primitive up here."





"I don't know," Shaz protested. "They've got plenty of good curry

houses, the property's cheap enough for me to afford something bigger

than a rabbit hutch, and if you want to go from one part of the city

centre to another, you can walk instead of sitting on the tube for an

hour."





"And the countryside. Don't forget how easy it is to get out into the

countryside," Kay added.





Leon leaned back in his seat, groaning and rolling his eyes

extravagantly like a terrible caricature of a Black and White Minstrel.





"Heathcliff," he warbled in falsetto.





"She's right," Simon said. "God, you're such a cliche, Leon. You

should get off the city streets, get some fresh air into your lungs.





What about coming out tomorrow for a walk? I really fancy seeing if

Ilkley Moor lives up to the song."





Shaz laughed. "What? You want to walk about without a hat and see if

you catch your death of cold?"





The others joined in her laughter. "See, man, it's primitive, like I

said. Nothing to do but walk about on your own two feet. And shit,

Simon, I'm not the one that's a cliche. You know I've been stopped

driving home three times since I moved here? Even the Met got a bit

more racially enlightened than thinking every black man with a decent

set of wheels has to be a drug dealer," Leon said bitterly.





"They're not stopping you because you're black," Shaz retorted as he

paused to light a cigarette.





"No?" Leon exhaled.





"No, they're stopping you for being in possession of an offensive

weapon."





"What do you mean?"





"That suit, babe. Any sharper and you'd cut yourself getting dressed.





You're wearing a blade, of course they're going to stop you." Shaz held

out her hand for Leon to give her five and, amid the hoots of laughter

from the other two, he made a rueful face and hit her hand.





"Not as sharp as you, Shaz," Simon said. She wondered if it was only

the heat of the spices that was responsible for the scarlet flush across

his normally pale cheekbones.





"Speaking of sharp," Kay chipped in as their main courses arrived, '

can't get anything past Tony Hill, can you?"





"He's smart, all right," Simon agreed, sweeping his wavy dark hair back

from his sweating forehead. "I just wish he'd loosen up a bit. It's

like there's a wall there that you get right up to but you can't see

over."





"I'll tell you why that is," Shaz said, suddenly serious. "Bradfield.





The Queer Killer."





"That's the one he did that went well and truly pear-shaped, yeah?" Leon

asked.





That's right."





"It was all hushed up, wasn't it?" Kay said, her intent face reminding

Shaz of a small furry animal, cute but with hidden teeth. "The papers

hinted at all sorts of stuff, but they never went into much detail."





"Believe me," Shaz said, looking at her half-chicken and wishing she'd

gone for something vegetarian, ' wouldn't want to know the details.





If you want to know the whole story, check out the Internet. They

weren't constrained by technicalities like good taste or requests from

the authorities to keep things under wraps. I'm telling you, if you can

read what Tony Hill went through without having second thoughts about

what we're doing, you're a fuck of a sight braver than I am."





There was a moment's silence. Then Simon leaned forward and said

confidingly, "You're going to tell us, aren't you, Shaz?"





He always arrived fifteen minutes ahead of the agreed time because he

knew she'd be early. It didn't matter which she he'd chosen, she'd turn

up ahead of schedule because she was convinced he was Rumpelstiltskin,

the man who could spin twenty-four-carat gold out of the dry straw of

her life.





Donna Doyle no longer the next one but rather the latest one was no

different from the others. As her silhouette appeared against the dim

light of the car park, he could hear the clumsy childish music crashing

in his head. "Jack and Jill went up the hill, to fetch a pail of water

... "





He shook his head to clear his ears, like a snorkeller surfacing from a

coral reef. He watched her approach, moving cautiously between the

expensive cars, glancing from side to side, a slight frown creasing her

forehead, as if she couldn't work out why her antennae weren't pointing

her to his precise position. He could see she'd done her best to look

good; the school skirt that had obviously been folded over at the waist

to show off shapely legs, the school blouse open one button further than

parent or teacher would ever have allowed in public, the blazer over one

shoulder, hanging thus to obscure the backpack of school supplies. The

make-up was heavier than the night before, its excess weight catapulting

her straight into middle age. And her hair glinted glossy black, the

swing of the short bob catching the dull gleam of the car park lights.





When Donna was almost level, he pushed open the passenger door of the

car. The sudden interior light made her jump even as she registered his

shockingly handsome profile cutting a dark line through the bright

rectangle. He spoke through his already lowered window. "Come and sit

with me while I tell you what all this is about," he said

conversationally.





Donna hesitated fractionally, but she was too familiar with the open

candour of his public face to pause properly for reflection. She slid

into the seat next to him and he made sure she saw him carefully not

looking at the expanse of thigh her moves had revealed. For the time

being, chastity was the best policy. Her smile was coquettish yet

innocent as she said, "When I woke up this morning, I wondered if I'd

dreamed it all."





His answering smile was indulgent. "I feel like that all the time," he

said, building another course of bricks on the false foundation of fake

rapport. "I wondered if you'd have second thoughts. There are so many

things you could do with your life that would be a greater contribution

to society than being on TV. Believe me, I know."





"But you do those things too," she said earnestly. "All that charity

work. It's being famous makes it possible for TV stars to raise so much

money. People pay money to see them. They wouldn't be shelling out

otherwise. I want to be able to do that. To be like them."





The impossible dream. Or rather, nightmare. She could never have been

like him, though she had no notion of the real reason why. People like

him were so rare it was almost an argument for the existence of God. He

smiled benevolently, like the Pope from the Vatican balcony. It pushed

all the right buttons. "Well, perhaps I can help you make a start," he

told her. And Donna believed him.





He had her there, alone, co-operative, in his car, in an underground car

park. What could have been easier than to whisk her away to his

destination?





Only a fool would think like that, he'd realized long ago, and he was no

fool. For a start, the car park wasn't exactly empty. Businessmen and

women were checking out of the hotel, stowing suit carriers into

executive saloons and reversing out of tight spots. They noticed a lot

more than anyone would expect. For another thing, it was broad daylight

outside, a city centre festooned with traffic lights where people sat

with nothing better to do than pick their noses and stare slack-jawed at

the inhabitants of the next car. First, they'd register the car. A

silver Mercedes, smart enough to catch the eye and the admiration. Or,

of course, the envy. Then they'd clock the flowing letters along the

front wing that announced,

Cars for Vance's Visits supplied by Morrigan Mercedes of Cheshire.





Alerted to the possible proximity of celebrity, they'd peer through the

tinted windows, trying to identify the driver and passenger. They

weren't going to forget that in a hurry, especially if they glimpsed an

attractive teenager in the passenger seat. When her photograph appeared

in the local paper, they'd remember, no question.





And finally, he'd got a busy day ahead. There was no space in his

schedule for delivering her to a place where he could exact what was

due. No point in drawing attention to himself by failing to keep

appointments, not turning up for the public appearances that were so

carefully constructed to give Vance's Visits maximum exposure for

minimal effort. Donna would have to wait. For both of them, it would

be the sweeter for the anticipation. Well, for him, at least. For her,

it wouldn't be long before reality turned her breathless expectation

into a sick joke.





So he whetted her appetite and kept her on the leash. "I couldn't

believe it when I saw you last night. You'd be absolutely perfect as

the co-host. With a two-handed show, we need contrast. Dark-haired

Donna, fair-haired Jacko. Petite Donna, hulking great brute Jacko." He

grinned, she giggled. "What we're working on is a new game show

involving parent and child teams. But the teams don't know they're in

the show until we turn up to whisk them off. A total surprise, like

This is Your Life. That's part of the reason why we need to be so sure

that whoever I end up working with is absolutely trustworthy. Total

discretion, that's the key."





"I can keep my mouth shut," Donna said earnestly. "Honest. I never

told a living soul about coming here to meet you. My mate that was at

the opening last night with me, when she asked what we were talking

about for so long, I just said I was asking whether you had any advice

for me if I wanted to break into TV."





"And did I?" he demanded.





She smiled, beguiling and seductive. "I told her you said I should get

some qualifications behind me before I made any decisions about a

career. She doesn't know enough about you to realize you'd never come

out with all that boring shit that I get off my mum."





"Good thinking," he told her appreciatively. "I can promise you I'll

never be boring, that's for sure. Now, the problem I've got is that I'm

desperately busy for the next couple of days. But I've got Friday

morning free, and I can easily set up some screen tests for you. We've

got a rehearsal studio up in the north-east and we can work there."





Her Hps parted, her eyes glowed in the dimness of the car interior. "You

mean it? I can be on telly?"





"No promises, but you look the part and you've got a beautiful voice."





He shifted in his seat so he could fix her with a direct gaze. "All I

need to prove to myself is that you really can keep a secret."





"I told you," Donna replied, consternation on her face. "I've said

nothing to anybody."





"But can you keep that up? Can you stay silent until Thursday night?"





He put his hand inside his jacket and produced a rail ticket. "This is

a train ticket for Five Walls Halt in Northumberland. On Thursday, you

catch the 3-Z5 Newcastle train from the station here, then at Newcastle,

you change to the 7.50 for Carlisle. When you come out of the station,

there's a car park on the left. I'll be waiting there in a Land Rover.





I can't get out to meet you on the platform because of commercial

confidentiality, but I'll be there in the car park, I promise. We'll

put you up for the night, then first thing in the morning, you do the

screen test."





"But my mum'll panic if I stay out all night and she doesn't know where

I am," she protested reluctantly.





"You can phone her as soon as we get to the studio complex," he told

her, his voice rich in reassurance. "Let's face it, she probably

wouldn't let you take the screen test if she knew, would she? I bet she

doesn't think working in TV is a proper job, does she?"





As usual, he'd calculated to perfection. Donna knew her ambitious

mother wouldn't want her to throw her university prospects away to be a

game-show bimbo. Her worried look disappeared and she peered up at him

from under her eyebrows. "I won't say a word," she promised solemnly.





"Good girl. I hope you mean that. All it takes is one wrong word and a

whole project can crash. That costs money, and it costs people's jobs

too. You might say something in confidence to your best friend, but

she'll tell her sister, and her sister will tell her boyfriend, and the

boyfriend will tell his best mate over a frame of snooker, and the best

mate's sister-in-law just happens to be a reporter. Or a rival TV

company executive. And the show's dead. And your big chance goes with

it. Let me tell you something. At the start of your career, you only

get one bite of the cherry. You screw up, and no one will ever hire you

again. You have to have a lot of success under your belt before the TV

bosses forgive a bit of failure." He leaned forward and rested a hand

on her arm as he spoke, invading her space and making her feel the

sexual thrill of his dangerous edge.





"I understand," Donna said with all the intensity of a fourteen-year-old

who thought she was really a grown-up and couldn't understand why the

adults wouldn't admit her into their conspiracy. The promise of an

entree into that world was what made her so ready to swallow something

as preposterous as his set-up.





"I can rely on you?"





She nodded. "I won't let you down. Not with this or anything else."





The sexual innuendo was unmistakable. She was probably still a virgin,

he reckoned. Something about her avidity told him so. She was offering

herself up to him, a vestal sacrifice.





He leaned closer and kissed the soft, eager mouth that instantly opened

under his primly closed lips. He drew back, smiling to soften her

obvious disappointment. He always left them wanting more. It was the

oldest showbiz cliche in the world. But it worked every time.





Carol wiped up the remaining traces of chicken jalfrezi with the last

chunk of nan bread and savoured the final mouthful. That', she said

reverently, ' to die for."





"There's more," Maggie Brandon said, pushing the heavy casserole dish

towards her.





"I'd have to wear it," Carol groaned. "There's no room inside."





"You can take some home with you," Maggie told her. "I know the kind of

daft hours you'll be working. Cooking's the last thing you'll have time

for. When John was made up to DCI, I considered asking his Chief

Constable if the family could move into the cells at Scargill Street

since that seemed to be the only way his kids would ever get to see

him."





John Brandon, Chief Constable of East Yorkshire Police, shook his head

and said affectionately, "She's a terrible liar, my wife. She only says

these things to guilt-trip you into working so hard there'll be nothing

left for me to worry about in your whole division."





Maggie snorted. "As if! How do you think he ended up looking like

that, eh?"





Carol gave Brandon a shrewd look. It was a good question. If ever a

man had been born with a graveyard face, it was Brandon. His

countenance was all verticals, long and narrow; lines in his hollow

cheeks, lines between his brows, aquiline nose, iron-grey hair straight

as the grid line on a map. Tall and thin, with the beginnings of a

stoop, all he needed was a scythe to audition for Death. She considered

her options. It might be





"John' tonight, but on Monday morning it would

be back to, "Mr. Brandon, sir." Better not push her informal

relationship with the boss too far. "And there was me thinking it was

marriage," she said innocently.





Maggie roared with laughter. "Diplomatic as well as quick, eh?"





she got out at last, reaching across to pat her husband's shoulder. "You

did well to get Carol to abandon the fleshpots of Bradfield for the back

of beyond, my love."





"Speaking of which, how are you settling in?" Carol asked.





"Well, this is a police house," Maggie told her, waving a hand at the

brilliant white walls and paintwork, a depressing contrast to the

hand-marbled paintwork Carol remembered from their Bradfield dining

room. "But it'll have to do us. We've rented out the house in

Bradfield, you know? John's only got another five years till he has his

thirty in, and we want to go back there. It's where our roots are,

where our friends are. And the kids will all be out of school by then,

so it's not like they'll be uprooted again."





"What Maggie isn't saying is that she feels a bit like a Victorian

missionary among the Hottentots," Brandon said.





"Well, you've got to admit, East Yorkshire's a bit different from

Bradfield. Plenty of scenery, but there's not a decent theatre within

half an hour's drive of here. There seems to be only one bookshop on

the whole patch that sells more than the bestsellers. And as for opera

you can forget it!" Maggie protested, getting to her feet and gathering

the empty plates.





"Don't you feel happier about the kids growing up away from the

influence of the inner city? Out of the reaches of the drug lords?"





Carol asked.





Maggie shook her head. "They're so insular round here, Carol. Back in

Bradfield, the kids had friends from all kinds of backgrounds Asian,

Chinese, Afro-Caribbean. Even one Vietnamese lad. Out here, you stick

to your own. There's nothing to do except hang around on street

corners. Frankly, I'd take a chance on them having the sense to stay

out of trouble in the inner city as a trade-off for all the

opportunities they had in Bradfield. This country living is well

over-rated." She marched through to the kitchen.





"Sorry," Carol said. "Didn't realize it was such a sore point."





Brandon shrugged. "You know Maggie. She likes to get it off her chest.





Give it a few more months, she'll be running the village, happy as a

pig. The kids like it well enough. How about you? What's the cottage

like?"





"I love it. The couple I bought it from did an immaculate restoration

job."





"I'm surprised they were selling it, then."





"Divorce," Carol said succinctly.





"Ah."





"I think they were both more upset about losing the cottage than the

marriage. You and Maggie will have to come over for a meal."





"If you ever find the time to shop," Maggie said darkly, walking back in

with a large cafetiere.





"Well, worst comes to worst, I'll send Nelson out to bring us a rabbit

back."





"He's enjoying the opportunities for murder that living in the country

offers?" Maggie asked drily.





"He thinks he's died and gone to feline heaven. You might crave the

inner city, but he's turned into a country boy overnight."





Maggie poured coffee for John and Carol, then said, "I'm going to leave

you pair to it, if you don't mind. I know you're dying to talk shop and

I promised Karen I'd pick her up after the pictures in Seaford. There's

enough coffee there to keep you both awake till dawn, and if you feel

peckish in a bit, there's home-made cheesecake in the fridge. But Andy's

due back around ten, so you'd better help yourself before then. I swear

that lad's got worms. That or hollow legs." She swooped down on

Brandon and gave him an affectionate peck on the cheek. "Enjoy

yourselves."





Unable to resist the feeling that she'd been set up by professionals,

Carol took a sip of her coffee and waited. When it came, Brandon's

question was hardly a surprise. "So how are you settling in on the

ground?" His voice was casual, but his eyes were watchful.





"Obviously, they're wary of me. Not only am I a woman, which on the

evolutionary scale in East Yorkshire comes somewhere between a ferret

and a whippet, but I'm also the Chief Constable's nark. Brought in from

the big city to crack the whip," she said ironically.





"I was afraid you'd get lumbered with that," Brandon said. "But you

must have known how it would be when you took the job on."





Carol shrugged. "It's not come as a surprise. But there's been rather

less of it than I anticipated. Maybe they're all still on their best

behaviour, but I think the Seaford Central Division CID are a not bad

crew. Because they were stuck out in the boondocks before the

reorganization and nobody was paying much attention, they've got a bit

lazy, a bit sloppy. I suspect one or two might be spending a bit more

than they're earning, but I don't think there's any deep-rooted,

systemic corruption."





Brandon nodded, satisfied. Trusting Carol Jordan's judgement had been a

steep learning curve for him, and he'd known instinctively she was the

one senior officer he wanted to tempt away from Bradfield. With her

setting the tone in Seaford, word would spread through other divisions

and the CID culture would adapt accordingly, given time. Time and a

certain amount of stick which Brandon wasn't afraid to apply. "Anything

on the books that's causing you a problem?"





Carol finished her coffee and poured herself another cup, offering the

pot to Brandon, who refused with a shake of the head. She frowned in

thought, gathering her arsenal of information. "There is something,"

she said. "Since we're talking informally?"





Brandon nodded.





"Well, I noticed going through the over nights that there seemed to be a

positive spate of unexplained fires and query arsons. All at night, all

in unoccupied premises like schools, factories, cafes, warehouses. None

of them very big in itself, but taken together, you're looking at a lot

of damage. I put a team together to re-interview the previous victims,

see if we could find any connection financially or insurance-wise.





Zilch. But I went myself to talk to the local fire chief, and he

produced a series of incidents going back about four months. None of

the fires could be absolutely, positively put down as arson, but

circumstantially, he reckons there have been something between six and a

dozen possible deliberate fires per month on his patch," Carol said.





"A serial arsonist?" Brandon said softly.





"It's hard to imagine another interpretation," Carol agreed.





"And you want to do what, exactly?"





"I want to catch him," she said with a grin.





"Well, what else?" Brandon smiled. "Did you have something specific in

mind?" he continued mildly.





"I want to carry on working with the team I've already got on it, and I

want to do a profile."





Brandon frowned. "Bring someone in?"





"No," Carol said sharply. "There's not really enough evidence to

justify the expense. I think I can take a pretty good stab at it

myself."





Brandon looked impassively at Carol. "You're not a psychologist."





"No, but I learned a lot last year, working with Tony Hill. And since

then, I've read everything about profiling I could find."





"You should have applied for the National Task Force," Brandon said,

keeping his eyes fixed on her.





Carol felt her skin burn. She hoped the wine and the coffee would

account for her heightened colour. "I don't think they were looking for

officers of my rank," she said. "Apart from Commander Bishop, there's

no one above the rank of sergeant. Besides, I prefer to work a patch,

get to know the people and the ground."





"They're due to be up and running a full case-load in a few weeks,"

Brandon continued implacably. "Maybe they'd welcome something like this

to cut their teeth on before then."





"Maybe they would," Carol said. "But it's my case. And I'm not ready

to let it go."





"Fine," Brandon said, interested that Carol had already developed such

fierce possessiveness about the work of the East Yorkshire force. "But

keep me posted, yes?"





"Of course," Carol said. Her sense of relief, she told herself, was

entirely because she would now have the chance to cover herself and her

team in glory when they cracked the case. Deep down, though, she knew

she was lying.





Sleeping in what the estate agent had referred to as the guest bedroom

of Shaz's flat would have been beyond most people, particularly if they

were the sort who needed to read a few pages before they could nod off.





While the bookcase in the living room contained an innocuous mix of

middlebrow middle-of-the-road modern fiction, the shelves in the room

Shaz thought of as her study held only hard-core horror, most of it

masquerading as textbooks. There were a few novels by pathologists of

psychopathy and anatomists of agony like Barbara Vine and Thomas Harris,

but most of Shaz's working library was both stranger and more brutal

than fiction ever dared to be. If there had been a vocational course

for serial killers, her library would have comprised the set books.





The lowest shelves held those items which mildly embarrassed her pulp

true-crime biographies of notorious serial killers with lurid nicknames,

sensational accounts of careers that had robbed hundreds of people of

their trust and their lives. Arranged above these were the more

respectable versions of those same lives, portentous renderings that

provided thoughtful revelations and insights sociological, psychological

and sometimes illogical.





Next, at eye-level for anyone sitting at the table that held Shaz's

notepads and laptop, were the battle stories of the veterans of the war

against serial offenders. Since it was the best part of twenty years

since the infancy of offender profiling, the pioneers had been trickling

into retirement for a few years now, each determined to augment his

pension with graphic accounts of his contribution to the latest soft

science with the case histories of his notable successes and a passing

gloss over his failures. They were, thus far, all men.





Above these autobiographies was the serious stuff; books with titles

like The Psychopathology of Sexual Homicide, Crime Scene Analysis and

Serial Rape: A Clinical Study. The top shelf gave the only indications

that she aspired to be hunter rather than hunted, with its selection of

legal texts, including a couple of guides to the Police and Criminal

Evidence Act. It was a comprehensive collection and Shaz hadn't amassed

it in the mere couple of months since she'd won her place on the task

force; it had been years in the building, helping her prepare for the

day she'd always been convinced would come, when she'd be called upon to

bring her very own notorious killer to book. If textual familiarity

alone caught criminals, Shaz would have had the best arrest record in

the country.





She had begged off the nightclub run following the curry in spite of the

blandishments of the other three. It wasn't just that she had never

been a great one for clubbing. Tonight, her spare room was infinitely

more tempting than anything a DJ or a barman had to offer. The truth

was, she'd been in a ferment all evening, eager to get back to her

computer and to finish the comparisons she'd begun to run through her

database that afternoon. In the three days since Tony had set their

assignment, Shaz had spent every spare moment working her way through

the thirty sketchy sets of case notes. At last, the opportunity had

come to put into practice all the theories and tricks of the trade she'd

picked up in her reading. She'd read the papers from start to finish,

not once, but three times. Not until she was fairly sure she had them

well differentiated in her head did she approach her computer.





The database Shaz used hadn't represented the leading edge of software

development way back when she'd copied it from a fellow student, and now

it was practically a candidate for display in a computing museum. But

while it might not have all the latest bells and whistles, it was more

than capable of performing what she needed. It displayed the material

clearly, it allowed her to create her own categories and criteria for

sorting the information, and she found its procedures in tune with her

instincts and logic and thus easy to use. She'd been inputting data

since early that morning, so focused on her work that she hadn't even

left the screen to cook lunch, settling instead for a banana and half a

packet of digestive biscuits, upending her laptop afterwards to remove

the crumbs from the keyboard.





Now, back in front of her screen, stripped of her glad rags and scrubbed

clean of her make-up, Shaz was happy. The mouse pointer flickered as

fingers clicked on buttons, summoning up menus that interested her far

more than anything on offer at the restaurant. She sorted the so-called

runaways by age and printed out the results. She followed the same

steps for geographical area, physical type, previous police contact,

various permutations on their domestic situation, drink and drugs

experience, known sexual contacts and interests. Not that the

investigating officers had been much concerned with their hobbies.





Shaz pored over the print-outs, reading them individually then spreading

them over the desktop so she could more readily compare notes. As she

gazed at the printed lists, the slow burn of excitement began in the pit

of her stomach. She scrutinized them one more time, double-checking

against the photographs in the files to make sure she wasn't willing

something into existence that wasn't there. "Oh, you beauty," Shaz

exclaimed softly, letting out a long sigh.





She closed her eyes and took a deep breath. When she looked again, it

was still there. A cluster of seven girls. First, the positive

similarities. They all had bobbed dark hair and blue eyes. They were

all fourteen or fifteen years old, between 5'2" and 5"4" tall. They had

all lived at home with one or both parents. In each case, their friends

and family had told the police they were baffled at the girl's

disappearance, convinced that she had no real reason to run away. In

every instance, the girls had taken almost nothing with them, though in

each case, at least one change of clothes appeared to have gone missing

with them, which was the main reason why the police hadn't seriously

considered them as possible victims of abduction or murder. Reinforcing

that view were the times of the disappearances. In each case, the girl

concerned had set off for school as usual but had never arrived. She'd

also given a false explanation of where she'd be spending the evening.





And, although this couldn't be quantified in a way the computer could

digest, they were all of a similar type. There was a flirtatious

sensuality in their looks, a knowing quality in the way they embraced

the camera that indicated they had left childhood innocence behind. They

were sexy, whether they knew it or not.





Next, the negative similarities. None of the seven had ever been in

care. None had ever been in trouble with the police. Friends admitted

to a bit of recreational drinking, maybe even the occasional joint or

even a dab of speed. But no significant drug usage. In none of the

seven cases was there any hint that the girls might have been engaged in

prostitution or the victims of sexual abuse.





There were problems with the cluster, of course. Three had current

boyfriends, four did not. The geographical locations were unconnected

Sunderland was the furthest north, Exmouth the most southerly point. In

between were Swindon, Grantham, Tarn-worth, Wigan and Halifax. The

reports also spanned six years. The intervals between the

disappearances were not constant, nor did they seem to diminish as time

went by, which Shaz would have expected if she were really dealing with

the victims of a serial killer.





On the other hand, there might be girls she didn't know about yet.





When Shaz woke early that Sunday morning, she tried to will herself back

to sleep. She knew there was only one thing she could do that would

advance her search for connections among her theoretical victim cluster

and that single task wasn't one that could be hurried. When she'd gone

to bed around midnight, she'd promised herself she would achieve it with

a lunchtime phone call. But lying wide awake with a racing brain at

quarter to seven, she knew she couldn't hold out that long.





Irritated by her inability to make progress except at someone else's

hands, she threw back the covers. Half an hour later, she was

accelerating up the long incline where the M1 began.





Showering, dressing and swallowing a coffee with the radio news in the

background had kept thought at arm's length. Now that the empty black

three-lane strip stretched out before her, she couldn't hide behind

distraction. The radio presenter's voice wasn't enough on its own. Not

even Tony Hill's words of wisdom could hold her today. Impatiently, Shaz

pushed a cassette of operatic arias into the stereo and gave up the

pretence of concentration. For the next two and a half hours, she had

nothing to do but run memories through her mind like old movies on a

rainy Sunday.





It was almost ten when she drove down the ramp to the Barbican complex's

underground car park. She was pleased to see the car park attendant

clearly remembered her, as she'd hoped, though he looked startled to see

her face smiling uncertainly round the door of his office. "Hello,

stranger," he said cheerfully. "We've not seen you around for a long

time."





"I've moved up to Leeds," she said, carefully avoiding any hint of how

recent her move had been. It had been more than eighteen months since

she'd last been here, but the reasons for that were nobody's business

but hers.





"Chris didn't say to expect you," the car park attendant said, getting

up from his seat and walking towards her. Shaz backed out of the booth

and down the steps as he followed her.





"It was all a bit last-minute," she said noncommittally, opening her car

door.





That seemed to satisfy the attendant. "Are you here overnight?" he

asked, frowning as he scanned the car park for an appropriate space.





"No, I'm not planning on staying long," Shaz said firmly, starting her

engine and crawling down the aisles of cars, following the attendant and

slotting the car into the space he indicated.





"I'll let you into the block," he said as she joined him. "What's it

like up in the frozen north, then?"





Shaz smiled. "The football's better," was all she said as he pulled

back the massive glass and metal door and waved her inside. Just as

well I'm not a terrorist sleeper, she thought as she waited for the

lift.





On the third floor, she stopped halfway along the carpeted corridor.





Taking a deep breath, she pressed the doorbell. In the silence that

followed, she breathed out through her nostrils in a slow steady stream,

trying to contain the nervousness that was turning her stomach into a

Jacuzzi. When she'd almost given up hope, she heard the faint whisper

of footfalls. Then the heavy door inched open.





Tousled chestnut hair, bleary brown eyes with dark smudges under them

and frown lines between, a snub nose and a yawn half-stifled behind a

square hand with blunt, well-manicured fingers appeared in the gap.





For once, Shaz's narrow smile made it as far as her eyes. The blaze of

warmth melted Chris Devine, and not for the first time. The hand

dropped away from the mouth, but the lips remained parted. Astonishment

came first, then delight, then consternation. "Any chance of a cup of

coffee?" Shaz asked.





Chris stepped back uncertainly, pulling the door wide. "You'd better

come in," she said.





Nothing worth having had ever come easy. He told himself that at

regular intervals through two days of torment, though it was not a

lesson he was ever likely to forget. His childhood had been scarred

with oppressive discipline, any rebelliousness or frivolity stifled by

force. He had learned not to show the currents that moved under the

surface, to present a bland and acceptable face to whatever adversity

people threw in his teeth. Other men might have revealed some traces of

the seething excitement that swirled inside whenever he thought of Donna

Doyle, but not him. He was too practised at dissemblement. No one ever

noticed his mind was ranging through entirely different territory,

detached from his surroundings, entirely elsewhere. It was a trait that

in the past had saved him pain; now it kept him safe.





In his head he was with her, wondering if she was keeping her promise,

imagining the excitement burning in her veins. He thought of her as a

changed being, charged with the secret weapon of knowledge, convinced

she had the edge on every tabloid astrologer because she knew for sure

what her future held.





Of course, hers could not be the same vision as his, he realized that.





It would have been hard to imagine two more disparate fantasies, so far

apart on the continuum that there could exist no single uniting factor.





Apart from orgasm.





Imagining her imagining a false future had its own fris son of delight

that cohabited and alternated with the sliver of fear that she would not

keep her word, that even as he played computer games with the stricken

inhabitants of a children's cancer ward, Donna was huddled in a corner

of the school cloakroom revealing her secret to her best friend. That

was the gamble he took every time. And every time, he'd judged the roll

of the dice perfectly. Not once had anyone come looking for him. Well,

not in the investigative sense. There had been one time when the

distraught parents of a missing teenage girl asked for a TV appeal

because, wherever she'd run off to, their daughter would never miss her

weekly fix of Vance's Visits. Sweet irony, so delicious he'd grown hard

for months afterwards just thinking about it. He could hardly have told

them that the only way they were ever going to talk to their daughter

again was via a medium, could he?





For two nights running, he went to sleep in the early hours and woke at

dawn tangled in damp sheets, his pulse racing and his eyes wide open.





Whatever the evaporated dream, it robbed him of further sleep, leaving

him to prowl the confined spaces of his hotel room, alternately exulting

and fretting.





But nothing lasted forever. Thursday evening found him in his

Northumberland retreat. Only fifteen minutes' drive from the centre of

the city, it was nevertheless as isolated as a Highland croft. Formerly

a tiny Methodist chapel that could never have held more than a couple of

dozen, it had been bought when it was reduced to four bulging walls and

a sagging roof. A team of local builders happy to have the cash in hand

renovated it to very particular specifications, never doubting the

reasons they were given for the desired features.





He savoured the preparations for his visitor. The sheets were clean,

the clothes laid out. The phone was switched off, the answering machine

turned down low, the fax shut away inside a drawer. The fibre optics

might sing all night with calls for him, but he wouldn't be hearing them

till morning. The table was covered with linen so white it seemed to

glow in the dark. On it, crystal, silver and porcelain were arranged in

traditional patterns. Red rosebuds in an engraved crystal vase, candles

splendid in simple Georgian silver. Donna would be captivated. Of

course, she wouldn't realize that it would be the last time she'd ever

use cutlery.





He looked around, checking everything was as it should be. The chains

and leather straps were all out of sight, the silken gag tucked away,

the carpentry bench innocent of tools except for the permanently mounted

vice. He had designed the workbench himself, all the tools arrayed on a

solid piece of wood like the drop leaf of a table attached to the far

end of the bench at ninety degrees to the work surface.





One last glance at his watch. Time to drive the Land Rover across the

rutted field track to the empty B-road that would take him to Five Walls

Halt with its isolated railway station. He lit the candles and smiled

with sheer pleasure, confident now that she would have kept faith and

silence alike. Won't you come into my parlour, said the spider to the

fly?





Tim Coughlan had finally had his prayers answered. He'd found the

perfect spot. The loading bay was slightly less wide than the factory

proper, leaving a recess about seven feet square at one end. At first

glance, it looked as if the alcove was blocked off by flattened

cardboard cartons stacked on their ends. If anyone had bothered to look

more closely, they would have noticed that the cartons weren't tightly

packed and that, with a little effort, it wouldn't be too hard to

squeeze between them. Anyone inclined to investigate further would have

found Tim Coughlan's bed sit containing a stained and greasy sleeping

bag and two carrier bags. The first bag contained one clean T-shirt,

one clean pair of socks and one clean pair of underpants. The other

held one dirty T-shirt, one dirty pair of socks, one dirty pair of boxer

shorts and a pair of shapeless cords that might once have been dark

brown but were now the colour of seabirds after the oil slick has

trapped them.





Tim slouched in a corner of his space, the sleeping bag scrunched into a

cushion beneath his bony buttocks. He was eating chips and curry sauce

from a polystyrene container. He had the best part of a litre of cider

left to wash it down and send him to sleep. He needed something on the

cold nights to carry him forward into oblivion.





It had taken long months living rough on the streets before he'd emerged

on the other side of the heroin haze that had robbed him of his life.





He'd dropped so low that even drugs were above his reach. That,

ironically, was what had saved him. Shivering through cold turkey in a

Christmas charity shelter, he'd finally turned the corner. He'd started

selling the Big Issue on street corners. He'd managed to put together

enough cash to buy clothes from charity shops that looked like poverty

rather than hopeless homelessness.





And he'd managed to find work on the docks. It was casual, poorly paid,

cash in hand, the black economy at its gloomiest. But it was a start.





And that was when he'd found his spot in the loading bay of an assembly

plant too strapped for cash to afford a night watchman.





Since then, he'd managed to save nearly three hundred pounds, stashed in

the building society account that was probably his only extant

connection to his past. Soon, he'd have enough for the deposit and a

month's rent on a proper place to live and enough to spare to feed

himself while the dole dragged their feet over his claim.





Tim had hit bottom and nearly drowned. Soon, he was convinced, he'd be

ready to swim back up to the daylight. He screwed up the chip container

and tossed it into the corner. Then he opened the cider bottle and

tipped the contents down his throat in a long series of quick gulps. The

notion of savouring it never occurred to him. There was no reason why

it should.





Opportunity had seldom knocked at Jacko Vance's door. Mostly, he'd

gripped it by the throat and dragged it kicking and screaming to centre

stage. He'd realized while he was still a child that the only way he

was ever going to come by some luck was if he managed to make it

himself. His mother, plagued by a kind of post-natal depression that

had made him repugnant to her, had ignored him as far as possible. She

hadn't actually been cruel, simply absent in any meaningful sense. His

father had been the one who paid attention, most often of a negative

sort.





He hadn't long been at school when the handsome child with the floppy

blond hair, the hollow cheeks and the huge baffled eyes had realized

that there was a point in having dreams, that things could be made to

happen. His little-boy-lost appearance worked on some teachers like a

blowtorch on an icicle. It didn't take him long to work out that he

could manipulate them into playing accessories in his own particular

power game. It didn't erase what happened at home, but it gave him an

arena where he began to understand the pleasure of power.





Although he traded on his looks, Jacko never relied solely on the power

of his charm. It was as if he had a built-in understanding that there

would be those who needed different weaponry if they were to succumb.





Since he'd had the work ethic instilled into him from the moment he had

begun to comprehend the messages of speech, it was never a hardship to

him to work for his effect. The sports field was the obvious place for

him to focus, since he had a certain natural talent and it offered a

wider arena to shine in than the narrow stage of the classroom. It was

also an area where effort paid off visibly and spectacularly.





Inevitably, the elements of his behaviour that endeared him to those who

had power alienated his contemporaries. Nobody ever loved a teacher's

pet. He fought the obligatory fights, winning some and losing a few.





When he did lose, he never forgot. Sometimes it took years, but he

found ways to exact some sort of satisfactory revenge. Often, the victim

of his vengeance never knew Jacko was behind his ultimate humiliation,

but sometimes he did.





Everyone on the council estate where he'd grown up remembered how he'd

got his own back on Danny Boy Ferguson. Danny Boy had been the bane of

Jacko's life between the ages of ten and twelve, picking on him

mercilessly. Finally, when Jacko had flown at him in a rage, Danny Boy

had smashed him to the ground with one hand held ostentatiously above

his head. Jacko's broken nose had healed without trace, but his black

rage burned behind the charm that the adults saw.





When Jacko won his first junior British championship, he became an

overnight hero on the estate. No one from there had ever had their

picture in the national papers before, not even Liam Gascoigne when he

dropped that concrete slab on Gladstone Sanders from the tenth floor. It

wasn't hard to persuade Danny Boy's girlfriend Kimberley to come up west

with him for a night on the town.





He'd wined and dined her for a week, then dumped her. That Sunday night

in the local, just as Danny Boy was working up to his fifth pint, Jacko

slipped the landlord fifty quid to broadcast over the pub's PA system

the tape he'd secretly recorded of Kimberley telling him in graphic

detail what a lousy fuck Danny Boy was.





When Micky Morgan had started visiting him in hospital, he'd recognized

a kindred spirit. He wasn't sure what she wanted, but he had a strong

feeling she wanted something. The day Jillie dumped him and Micky

offered to help him out, he becarn, e certain.





Five minutes after she walked out of the ward, he hired the private eye.





The man was good; the answers came even faster than he'd expected. By

the time he read her handiwork in the headlines that screamed across all

the tabloids, he understood Micky's motives and knew how best he could

use her.





JACK THE LAD LETS LOVE GO! HEARTBREAK HERO! LOVE





TORMENT OF TRAGIC JACK! He smiled and read on.





Britain's bravest man has revealed he's making the greatest sacrifice of

all.





Days after he lost his Olympic dream saving the lives of two toddlers,

Jacko Vance has broken his engagement to his childhood sweetheart Jillie

Woodrow.





Heartbroken Jacko, speaking from the hospital bed where he is recovering

from the amputation of his javelin-throwing arm, said, "I'm setting her

free. I'm no longer the man she agreed to marry. It's not fair to

expect her to carry on as before. I can't offer her the life we'd

expected to have, and the most important thing to me is her happiness.





"I know she's upset now, but in the long run, she'll come to see I'm

doing the right thing."





Now Jillie could never deny his version of events without making herself

look a complete bitch.





Jacko bided his time, playing along with Micky's proffered friendship.





Then, when he deemed the moment was right, he struck like a rattler.





"OK, so when's payback day?" he asked, his eyes holding hers.





"Payback day?" she echoed, puzzled.





"The story of my love sacrifice," he said, larding his words with heavy

irony. "Don't they call tales like that a nine-day wonder?"





"They do," Micky said, continuing to arrange the flowers she'd brought

in the tall vase she'd charmed from the nurse.





"Well, it's ten days now since the media broke the news. Jacko and

Jillie are officially no longer headline material. I was wondering when

I'd get the account for payment due." His voice was mild, but looking

into his eyes was like staring into a frozen puddle on high moorland.





Micky shook her head and perched on the edge of the bed, her face

composed. But he knew her mind was racing, calculating how best to

handle him. "I'm not sure what you mean," she stalled.





Jacko's smile was laced with condescension. "Come on, Micky. I wasn't

born yesterday. The world you work in, you've got to be a piranha.





Favours don't get done in your circles without the full understanding

that payback day is lurking somewhere in the background."





He watched her consider lying and reject it; he waited while she

considered the truth and rejected that, too. "I'll settle for having

one in the bank," she tried.





"That's the way you want to play it, OK," he said nonchalantly. His

left hand suddenly snaked out and seized her wrist. "But I'd have

thought you and your girlfriend were in pretty dire need as of now."





His large hand encircled her wrist. The sculpted muscles of his forearm

stood out in strong relief, a shocking reminder of what he'd lost. The

grip wasn't tight against her flesh, but she sensed it was unbreakable

as the bracelet of a handcuff. Micky looked up from her wrist to his

implacable face and he saw a momentary clutch of fear as she wondered

what lay behind his impenetrable eyes. He made his face relax into a

ghost of a smile and the instant passed. He saw himself reflected in

her eyes, not a trace of sinister showing now. "What a strange thing to

say," she said.





"It's not just journalists who have contacts," Jacko said

contemptuously. "When you started taking an interest in me, I returned

the compliment. Her name's Betsy Thorne, you've been together more than

a year. She acts as your PA but she is also your lover. For Christmas

you bought her a Bulova watch from a Bond Street jeweller's. Two

weekends ago you shared a twin room overnight at a country house hotel

near Oxford. You send her flowers on the twenty-third of each month. I

could go on."





"Circumstantial," Micky said. Her voice was cool; the skin under his

grip felt like a burning ring of flesh. "And none of your business."





"It's not the tabloids' business either, is it? But they're digging,

Micky. It's only a matter of time. You know that."





"They can't find what isn't there to be found," she said, slipping into

obstinacy as if it were a tailored blazer.





"They'll find it," Jacko promised her. "Which is where I might be able

to help."





"Supposing I did need help ... what form would your help take?"





He released her wrist. Rather than pull her arm to her and rub it,

Micky let it lie where he dropped it. "Economists ay good money drives

out bad. It's like that with journalists. You should know. Give them

a better story and they'll abandon their sordid little fishing

expedition."





"I won't argue with that. What did you have in mind?"





"What about, "Hospital romance for hero Jacko and TV jour no He raised

one eyebrow. Micky wondered if he'd practised the gesture before the

mirror in adolescence.





"What's in it for you?" she asked, after a moment when they'd each

stared appraisingly at the other, as if measuring for romantic

congruence.





"Peace and quiet," Jacko said. "You have no idea how many women there

are out there who want to save me."





"Maybe one of them would be the right one."





Jacko laughed, a dry, bitter sound. "It's the Groucho Marx principle,

isn't it? Not wanting to be a member of any club that would let me in.





A woman who's demented enough to think that, a) I need saving and b)

that she's the person for the job is by definition the world's worst

woman for me. No, Micky, what I need is camouflage. So that when I get

out of here which should be quite soon I can go about my life without

every brain-dead bimbo in Britain thinking I'm her chance at the big

time. I don't want someone who feels sorry for me. Until somebody I

choose comes along, I could use the erogenous equivalent of a

bulletproof vest. Fancy the job?"





Now it was his turn to guess what was really happening behind her eyes.





Micky was back in control of herself, maintaining the air of bland

interest that would later stand her in good stead as the housebound

nation's favourite interviewer. "I don't do ironing," was all she said.





"I've always wondered what a PA did," Jacko said, his smile as wry as

his tone.





"You better not let Betsy hear you say that."





"Deal?"





Jacko covered her hand with his. "Deal," she said, turning her hand

over and clasping his fingers in hers.





The stench hit Carol as soon as she opened her car door. There was

nothing quite as disgusting as barbecued human flesh, and once smelled,

it could never be erased from the memory. Trying not to gag too

obviously, she walked the short distance to where Jim Pendlebury

appeared to be conducting an impromptu press conference under the fire

brigade's portable arc lights. She'd spotted the journalists as soon as

her driver had turned into the car park, and she'd asked to be dropped

nearby, well away from the phalanx of scarlet engines where fire

officers were still spraying a smouldering warehouse with water. High

above his colleagues, one man on a cherry picker sent a soaring arc of

water above their heads on to the flaking remains of the roof. Milling

around behind the fire brigade were half a dozen uniformed police

officers. One or two watched Carol's arrival with vague interest, but

soon turned back to the more absorbing vista of the fag end of the fire.





Carol hung back as Pendlebury gave brief and noncommittal answers for

the benefit of local radio and press. Once they realized they would get

nothing much out of the fire chief at that stage, they dispersed. If any

of them paid attention to the blonde in the trench coat, they probably

assumed she was another reporter. Only the crime reporters had met

Carol so far, and it was too early for this to have graduated from a

news headline into a crime story. As soon as the night-shift news

reporters called in that the factory fire was not only fatal but also

suspected arson, the jackals on the crime beat would have their morning

assignments on a plate. One or two of them might even be turfed out of

bed as unceremoniously as she had been.





Pendlebury greeted Carol with a grim smile. "The smell of hell," he

said.





"Unmistakably."





"Thanks for turning out."





"Thanks for tipping me off. Otherwise I'd have known nothing about it

till I got into the office and read the over nights And then I'd have

missed the joys of a fresh crime scene," she said wryly.





"Well, after our little chat the other day, I knew this one would be

right up your street."





"You think it's our serial arsonist?"





"I wouldn't have phoned you at home at half past three in the morning if

I hadn't been pretty sure," he said.





"So what have we got?"





"Want to have a look?"





"In a minute. First, I'd appreciate a verbal briefing while I'm in a

position to concentrate on what you're saying rather than on what my

stomach's doing."





Pendlebury looked slightly surprised, as if he expected her to take such

horrors in her stride. "Right," he said, sounding disconcerted. "We got

the call just after two, from one of your patrol cars, actually. They'd

been cruising and saw the flames. We had two units here within seven

minutes, but the place was well ablaze. Another three tenders were here

inside the half-hour, but there was no way we were going to save the

building."





"And the body?"





"As soon as they had the fire damped down at this end of the warehouse

which took about half an hour the officers became aware of the smell.





That was when they called me out. I'm on permanent stand-by for all

fatal fires. Your lads called in CID, and I called you."





"So where is the body?"





Pendlebury pointed to one side of the building. "As far as we can tell,

it was in the corner of the loading bay. There seems to have been a

kind of alcove at one end. Looking at the ash, there was probably a

load of cardboard stashed at the front of it. We've not been able to

get in yet, it's still too hot and too chancy in terms of walls coming

down, but from what we can see and what we can smell, I'd say the body's

behind or underneath all that wet ash down the back of that recess."





There's no doubt in your mind that there's definitely a body in there?"





Carol was grasping at straws, and she knew it.





"There's only one thing that smells like roast human, and that's roast

human," Pendlebury said bluntly. "Besides, I think you can just about

see the outline of the body. Come on, I'll show you."





A couple of minutes later, Carol stood by Pendlebury's side at what he

claimed was a safe distance from the smoking ruin. It felt

uncomfortably warm to her, but she had learned when to trust the

expertise of others during her years in the force. To have hung back

would have been insulting. As Pendlebury pointed out the contours of

the blackened forms the fire and water had left at the end of the

loading bay, she found herself irresistibly forming the same conclusion

as the fire chief.





"When can the scene-of-crime people start work?" she asked dully.





Pendlebury pulled a face. "Later this morning?"





She nodded. "I'll make sure the team's on stand-by." She turned away.





This is exactly what I didn't want to happen," she said, half to

herself.





"It was bound to happen sooner or later. Law of averages," Pendlebury

said lightly, falling into step with her as she walked back towards her

car.





"We should have been all over this arsonist ages ago," Carol said,

angrily searching through her pockets for a tissue to wipe the wet ash

from her trainers. "It's sloppy policing. He should have been nabbed

by now. It's our fault that he's still on the loose to kill people."





"You're not being fair on yourself," Pendlebury protested. "You've only

been here five minutes, and you picked up on it right away. You mustn't

blame yourself."





Carol looked up from her attempts at cleaning her shoes and scowled.





"I'm not blaming myself, though maybe we could have put a bit more

effort into the case. I'm saying that somewhere along the line the

police on this patch have let down the people they're supposed to serve.





And maybe you should have been a bit more forceful about making the

point to my predecessor that you thought you had a firebug."





Pendlebury looked shocked. He couldn't remember the last time he'd been

criticized to his face by a member of another emergency service. "I

think you're a bit out of order, Chief Inspector," he said, made pompous

by his outrage.





"I'm sorry you feel like that," Carol said stiffly, standing up and

straightening her shoulders. "But if we're going to have a productive

working relationship, there's no room for cosiness at the expense of

honesty. I expect you to tell me if we're not keeping our end of the

deal. And when I see things I don't like, I'll call them. I don't want

to fall out with you about this. I want to catch this guy. But we're

not going to make any progress if we all stand around saying it can't be

helped that some poor bastard is lying there dead."





For a moment, they glared at each other, Pendlebury uncertain how to

deal with her fiery determination. Then he spread his hands in a

conciliatory gesture. "I'm sorry. You're right. I shouldn't have

taken no for an answer."





Carol smiled and thrust out her hand. "Let's both try and get it right

from now in, OK?"





They shook on it. "Deal," he said. "I'll talk to you later, when the

forensics team have been all over it."





As she drove off, Carol had room for only one thought. She had a serial

arsonist who had now become a killer on her patch. Catching him was the

only show in town. By the time the forensics team had something

positive to tell her, she intended to have a draft profile. By the time

the inquest opened, she meant to have a suspect in custody. If John

Brandon had thought she was driven when they'd worked together in

Bradfield, he was in for a surprise. Carol Jordan was out to prove a

lot of points to a lot of people. And if she felt discouraged along the

way, the stink that clung to her nostrils would be impetus enough to get

her moving again.





Shaz turned over and looked at the clock. Twenty minutes to seven. Only

ten minutes since she'd looked at it last. She wasn't going to fall

asleep again, not now. If she was honest, she thought as she got out of

bed and made for the bathroom, she probably wasn't going to sleep

properly until Chris had delivered on her promise.





Asking the favour had been less awkward than she'd expected, Shaz

reflected as she sat on the loo and leaned over to turn on the bath

taps. Time seemed to have smoothed the rough edges of her relationship

with Detective Sergeant Devine until it was back where it had been

before misunderstandings and false moves had abraded it to a series of

painful snags.





From the start of Shaz's career in the Met, Chris Devine had represented

everything Shaz aspired to. There had been only two women in CID at the

station where Shaz was based in West London, and Chris was the higher

ranking. It was obvious why. She was a good cop with one of the best

arrest records in the division. Rock solid in a crisis, hard working,

imaginative and incorruptible, she also demonstrably possessed a brain

and a sense of humour. Even more importantly, she could be one of the

lads without ever letting anyone forget she was a woman.





Shaz had studied her like a specimen under a microscope. Where Chris

was, she wanted to be, and she wanted that same respect. Already she'd

seen too many women officers dismissed as plonks or slits, and she was

determined that would never happen to her. Shaz knew that as a brand

new uniformed constable, she was an insignificant dot somewhere in

Chris's peripheral vision, but somehow she insinuated herself into the

older woman's consciousness until, whenever they were in the station

taking refs at the same time, they could invariably be found in a corner

of the canteen drinking brutally strong tea and talking shop.





The very day Shaz became eligible for acid aide posting, she'd submitted

her name. Chris's recommendation was enough to swing it and, a few

weeks later, Shaz found herself on her first night-shift stakeout with

Chris. It took her rather longer to realize that Chris was gay, and had

been working on the assumption that Shaz's hot pursuit was sexual rather

than professional. The night her sergeant kissed her had been the worst

moment of her police career.





For an instant, she'd almost gone along with it, so deep-rooted was her

ambition. Then reality had clicked in. Shaz might not have been much

good at forming relationships, but she knew enough about herself to be

clear that it was very definitely men rather than women that she wasn't

connecting with. She'd recoiled from Chris's embrace more vigorously

than from a sawn-off shotgun. The aftermath was something neither Shaz

nor Chris could recall without an uncomfortable mixture of emotions;

humiliation, embarrassment, anger and betrayal. The sensible option

would probably have been for one of them to seek a transfer, but Chris

wasn't prepared to abandon a patch she knew like her own back garden,

and Shaz was too stubborn to give up her first best chance at making it

on to a permanent CID appointment.





So they'd established an awkward armistice that allowed them to stay on

the same team, though whenever they could avoid working shift together,

they did. Six months before Shaz's move to Leeds, Chris had been

promoted and transferred to New Scotland Yard. They hadn't spoken from

that day until Shaz had fetched up on Chris's doorstep looking for a

favour.





Shaz chopped fresh fruit into her muesli and reflected that it had been

easier than she'd expected to swallow her pride and ask Chris for help,

possibly because Chris had been wrong-footed by the presence in her flat

and, clearly, her bed of a fingerprint technician Shaz remembered from

Notting Hill Gate. When Shaz had explained what she wanted, Chris had

agreed immediately, understanding exactly why Shaz was so eager to push

far beyond what her course leader expected from his officers. And, again

as if fate had taken a hand in Shaz's life, it happened that Chris was

off duty the following day, so garnering Shaz's information in the

minimal time available would be simple.





As she absently shovelled breakfast into her mouth, she imagined Chris

spending her day in the national newspaper archives at Colin-dale,

copying page after page of local papers until she'd covered the period

surrounding each of the seven disappearances that had captured Shaz's

imagination. Shaz ran her empty cereal bowl under the hot tap with

happy anticipation swejling inside. She couldn't say why she was so

certain, but she was convinced that the first





steps on her journey of proof would be way marked in the local press.





She'd never been wrong so far. Except, of course, about Chris. But

that, she told herself, had been different.





"The kind of cases we'll be working are the ones that leave most police

officers feeling edgy. That's because the perpetrators are dancing to a

different beat from the rest of us," Tony looked around, double-checking

that they were listening to him rather than shuffling through their

papers. Leon looked as if he'd rather be somewhere else, but Tony had

grown accustomed to his affectations and no longer took them at face

value. Satisfied, he continued. "Knowing you're dealing with someone

who has manufactured their own set of rules is a very unsettling

experience for anyone, even trained police officers. Because we come in

from the outside to make sense of the bizarre, there's a tendency to

lump us as part of the problem rather than the solution, so it's

important that the first thing we concentrate on is building a rapport

with the investigating officers. You've all come here from CID work any

ideas about the sort of thing that might work?"





Simon jumped straight in. "Take them out for a pint?" he suggested.





The others groaned and catcalled at his predictability.





Tony's smile came nowhere near his eyes. "Chances are they'll have half

a dozen good excuses why they can't come to the pub with you. Any other

ideas?"





Shaz raised her pen. "Work your socks off. If they see you're a

grafter, they'll give you some respect."





"Either that or think you're brown-nosing the bosses," Leon sneered.





"It's not a bad idea," Tony said, ' Leon does have a point. If

you're going to go down that road, you also need to demonstrate a

complete contempt for everyone over the rank of DCI, which can be

wearing, not to say counterproductive." They laughed. "What does the

trick for me is incredibly simple." He gave them a last questioning

look. "No? How about flattery?"





A couple nodded sagely. Leon's lip curled and he snorted. "More

brown-nosing."





"I prefer to think of it as one technique among many in the arsenal of

the profiler. I don't use it for personal advancement; I use it for the

benefit of the casework," Tony corrected him mildly. "I have a mantra

that I trot out at every available opportunity." He shifted his

position slightly, but that small change altered his body language from

comfortable authority to subordinate. His smile was self-deprecating.





"Of course," he said ingratiatingly, "I don't solve murders. It's

bobbies that do that." Then, just as swiftly, he returned to his

previous posture. "It works for me. It might not work for you. But

it's never going to do any harm to tell the investigating officers how

much you respect their work and how you're just a tiny cog that might

make their machine work better." He paused for a moment. "You have to

tell them this at least five times a day." They were all grinning now.





"Once you've done that, there's a reasonable chance they'll give you the

information you need to draw up your profile. If you can't be bothered

making the effort, they're likely to hold as much back as they can get

away with because they see you as a rival for the glory of solving a

high-profile case. So. You've got the investigating officers on your

side, and you've got your evidence. It's time to work on the profile.





First you assess probabilities."





He stood up and began to prowl round the perimeter of the room, like a

big cat checking the limits of its domain. "Probability is the only god

of the profiler. To abandon probability for the alternative demands the

strongest evidence. The downside of that is that there will be times

when you end up with so much egg on your face you'll look like an

omelette on legs."





Already, he could feel his heart rate increasing and still he hadn't

said a word about the case. "I had that experience myself on the last

major case I worked. We were dealing with a serial killer of young men.





I had all the information that was available to the police, thanks to a

brilliant liaison officer. On the basis of the evidence, I drew up a

profile. The liaison officer made a couple of suggestions based on her

instincts. One of those suggestions was an interesting idea I hadn't

thought of because I didn't know as much about information technology as

she did. But equally, because it was something only a small proportion

of the population would know about, I assigned it a moderately low

probability. Normally, that would mean the investigation team would

assign it low priority, but they were stuck for leads, so they pursued

it. It turned out she'd been right, but in itself it didn't move the

investigation much further forward."





His hands were clammy with perspiration, but now he was actu ally

confronting the details that still shredded his nights, his stomach had

stopped clenching. It was less effort than he'd expected to continue

his analysis. "Her other suggestion I discounted out of hand because it

was completely off the wall. It ran counter to everything I knew about

serial killers." Tony met their curious stares. His tension had

transmitted itself to the entire squad and they sat silent and

motionless, waiting for what would come next.





"My disregard for her suggestion nearly cost me my life," he said

simply, reaching his seat and sitting down again. He looked around the

room, surprised he could speak so levelly. "And you know something? I

was right to ignore her. Because, on a scale of one to a hundred, her

proposition was so unlikely it wouldn't even register."





As soon as the formal confirmation of the body in the blaze came

through, Carol called a meeting of her team. This time, there were no

chocolate biscuits. "I expect you've all heard this morning's news,"

she said flatly as they arranged themselves around her office, Tommy

Taylor straddling the only chair apart from Carol's on the basis that he

was the sergeant. He might have been brought up never to sit while

women were standing, but he'd long since stopped thinking of Di Earnshaw

as a woman.





"Aye," he said.





"Poor bugger," Lee Whitbread chimed in.





"Poor bugger nothing," Tommy protested. "He shouldn't have been there,

should he?"





Repelled but not surprised, Carol said, "Whether he should or shouldn't

have been there, he's dead, and we're supposed to be looking for the

person who killed him." Tommy looked mutinous, folding his arms across

the chair back and planting his feet more firmly on the floor, but Carol

refused to respond to the challenge. "Arson's always a time bomb," she

continued. "And this time it's gone off right in our faces. Today has

not been the proudest day of my career to date. So what have you got

for me?"





Lee, leaning against the filing cabinet, shifted his shoulders. "I went

through all the back files for the last six months. Leastways, all I

could get my hands on," he corrected himself. "I found quite a few

incidents like you told us to look for, some off night-shift CID

reports, some off the uniform lads. I was planning on getting them

collated on paper today."





"Di and me, we've been re-interviewing the victims, like you said. There

doesn't seem to be any linking factor that we've come across so far,"

Tommy said, his voice distant following Carol's snub.





"A variety of insurance companies, that kind of thing," Di amplified.





"What about a racial motive?" Carol asked.





"Some Asian victims, but not what you'd call enough to make it look

significant," Di said.





"Have we spoken to the insurers themselves yet?"





Di looked at Tommy and Lee stared out of the window. Tommy cleared his

throat. "It was on Di's list for today. First chance she's had."





Unimpressed, Carol shook her head. "Right. Here's what we do next.





I've had some experience in offender profiling ... " She stopped when

Tommy muttered something. ''m sorry, Sergeant Taylor, did you have a

contribution?"





Confidence restored, Tommy grinned insolently back at Carol. "I said,

"We'd heard," ma'am."





For a moment, Carol said nothing, merely staring him down. It was

situations like this that could make the job degenerate into a misery if

they weren't handled right. So far, it was only cheeky disrespect. But

if she let it go, it would quickly slide into full-scale

insubordination. When she spoke, her voice was quiet but chill.





"Sergeant, I can't think why you have this burning ambition to go back

into uniform and play at community policing, but I'll be more than happy

to oblige you if CID work continues not to be to your taste."





Lee's mouth twitched in spite of himself; Di Earnshaw's dark eyes

narrowed, waiting for the explosion that never came. Tommy pushed his

shirtsleeves above his elbows, looked Carol straight in the eye and

said, "Reckon I'd better show you what I'm made of then, Guv."





Carol nodded. "You better had, Tommy. Now, I'm going to work on a

profile, but to make that anything more than a bit of an academic

exercise, I'm going to need a lot of raw data. Since we can't find any

evidence of linkage between the victims, I'm going to stick my neck out

and say we've got a thrill seeker rather than a torch for hire. Which

means we're looking for a young adult male. He's probably unemployed,

likely to be single and still living with his parents. I'm not going to

go into all the psychobabble about social inadequacy and all that right

now. What we need to look for is someone with a record of police

contact for petty nuisance of fences vandalism, substance abuse, that

sort of thing. Maybe minor sex of fences Peeping Tom, exposing

himself. He's not going to be a mugger, a burglar, a thief, a fly boy.





He's going to be a sad bastard. In and out of minor bother since he was

a pre-teen. He probably doesn't have a car, so we need to look at the

geography of the fires; chances are if you drew a line linking the

outermost fires, he'll live inside its boundaries. He'll probably have

watched all the fires from a vantage point, so have a think about where

that might have been and who might have witnessed him there.





"You know the ground. It's your job to bring me suspects that we can

match against my profile. Lee, I want you to talk to the collator and

see who uniform know that fits those criteria. I'll get going on a

fuller profile and Tommy and Di will do the routine work-up on the crime

itself, liaising with forensics and organizing a door-to-door in the

area. Hell, I don't have to tell you how to run a murder inquiry ... "





A knock at the door interrupted Carol's flow. "Come in," she called.





The door opened on John Brandon. It was, Carol realized, a measure of

how far she had to go before she'd be accepted into the East Yorkshire

force that no one had stuck a head round the door to warn her the chief

was on his way. She jumped to her feet, Tommy nearly toppled in his

hurry to get out of his chair and Lee cracked his elbow on the filing

cabinet pushing himself upright. Only Di Earnshaw was already in place,

standing against the back wall with her arms folded across her chest.





"Sorry to interrupt, DCI Jordan," Brandon said pleasantly. "A word?"





"Certainly, sir. We're pretty much finished here. You three know what

we're after, I'll leave you to it." Carol's smile managed to dismiss as

well as encourage and the three junior officers edged out of the office

with barely a backward glance.





Brandon waved Carol to her seat as he folded his long body into the

guest chair. "This fatal fire at Wardlaw's," he began without

formalities.





Carol nodded. "I was out there earlier."





"So I heard. One of your series then, I take it?"





"I think so. It's got all the hallmarks of it. I'm waiting to hear

from the fire investigators, but Jim Pendlebury, the fire chief, reckons

it's got generic similarities to the earlier incidents we'd identified."





Brandon chewed one side of his lower lip. It was the first time Carol

had ever seen him look anything other than completely composed. He

breathed heavily through his nose and said, "I know we talked about this

before and you were convinced that you could handle it. I'm not saying

that you can't, because I think you're a bloody good detective, Carol.





But I want Tony Hill to take a look at this."





"There's really no need," Carol said, feeling heat spreading up her

chest and into her neck. "Certainly not at this stage."





Brandon's gloomy bloodhound face seemed to grow even longer. "It's no

slur on your competence," he said.





"I'm bound to say that's what it looks like from here," Carol said,

trying not to sound as mutinous as she felt, forcing herself to remember

how angry Tommy Taylor's earlier impertinence had made her feel. "Sir,

we've barely started our own inquiries. It may well be that we'll have

this whole thing wrapped up in a matter of days. There can't be that

many potential suspects in Seaford who fit the serial arsonist profile."





Brandon shifted in his chair, as if struggling to find an appropriate

arrangement for his long legs. "I find myself in a slightly awkward

position here, Carol. I've never been happy with the "theirs not to

reason why" approach to command. I've always thought things run better

when my officers understand why I issue the orders I do rather than

having to rely on blind obedience. On the other hand, for operational

reasons, sometimes things have to be taken on trust. And when other

units outside my command are involved, even when I think there's no

earthly reason for confidentiality, I have to respect what they ask for.





If you follow me?" He raised his eyebrows in an anxious question. If

any of his officers could read between so oblique a set of lines, it

would be Carol Jordan.





Carol frowned as she digested Brandon's words. "So, hypothetically,"

she eventually said, taking her time to think through what she was

saying, ' a new unit was being set up with a specialist area of

responsibility, and they wanted a sympathetic force to let them use one

of their cases as a sort of guinea pig, even if you thought the officer

in charge had a right to know what the score was, you'd be obliged to go

along with their demand for confidentiality as to the real reason why

they were being handed the case? That sort of thing, sir?"





Brandon smiled gratefully. "Speaking purely hypothetically, yes."





There was no answering smile. "This wouldn't be an appropriate occasion

for such an experiment, in my opinion." She paused. "Sir."





Brandon looked surprised. "Why not?" he asked.





Carol thought for a moment. Few fast-track graduates climbed the greasy

pole as fast as she'd done, particularly women. John Brandon's

patronage had given her more than she could ever have expected. And she

couldn't even be certain if her real reasons for reluctance were the

ones she was about to voice. Nevertheless, she'd stuck her neck out

this far and she'd never been a quitter. "We're a new force," she said

carefully. "I've only just arrived to work with a group of people who

have been a team for a long time. I'm trying to build up a working

relationship that will allow us to protect and serve our community. I

can't do that if I'm stripped of the first major case that's crossed my

desk since I got here."





"No one's talking about taking the case away from you, Chief Inspector,"

Brandon said, reflecting Carol's formality. "We're talking about using

the new task force on a consultancy basis."





"It'll look like you've no confidence in me," Carol insisted.





"That's nonsense. If I had no confidence in your abilities, why on

earth would I have appointed you to a promoted post?"





Carol shook her head in disbelief. He really didn't get it. "I'm sure

the canteen cowboys won't have any trouble coming up with ideas on that

score, sir," she said bitterly.





Brandon's eyes widened as he grasped her meaning. "You think they ...

That can't be ... It's ridiculous! I never heard anything so absurd!"





"If you say so, sir." Carol managed a twisted smile and ran a hand

through her shaggy blonde hair. "I didn't think I looked that rough."





Brandon shook his head in disbelief. "It never occurred to me that

people would misinterpret your promotion. You're self-evidently such a

good copper." He sighed and chewed his lip again. "Now I'm in an even

worse position than I was when I walked in." He looked up at her and

made a decision.





"I'm going to speak off the record. Paul Bishop has been having liaison

problems with the local brass in Leeds. They've made it clear they

don't want his team on their ground and they won't let him near any of

their crimes. He needs a real case for his officers to learn their

trade, and for obvious reasons, he doesn't want some high-profile serial

killer or rapist. He rang me because we're next door to him and he

asked me to keep an eye out for something that might do for his squad to

cut their teeth on before they're officially available to catch cases

from every Tom, Dick and Harry. To be perfectly honest, I was going to

offer them your serial arsonist even before it turned fatal."





Carol tried to keep her anger out of her face. It was always the way.





Just when you thought you'd got them house-trained, they reverted to

Neanderthal. "It's a murder now. You don't get much more high profile

than that," she said. "For my own self-respect, never mind the respect

of my team, I need to head the investigation. I do not need to be seen

to be hanging on the coat-tails of the National Offender Profiling Task

Force," she continued coldly. "If I'd thought sending in visiting

firemen was the best way to police serious crime, I'd have applied to

join them. I can't believe you'd undermine me like this. Sir." The

last word came out like a expletive.





Brandon's method of dealing with threatened insubordination was very

different from Carol's. A man in his position had little need of veiled

threats; he could afford to be more creative. "I have no intention of

undermining any of my officers, DCI Jordan. That's why you will be the

only officer who has direct dealings with the task force. You will go

to them in Leeds, they will not come on our ground. I will make it clear

to Commander Bishop that his officers will discuss the case with no

other officer of the East Yorkshire force. I trust you will find that

satisfactory?"





Carol couldn't help feeling a grudging respect for the speed with which

her chief had thought on his feet. "You've made your orders perfectly

clear," she said, leaning back in resignation.





Relieved that the crisis had been resolved without anything that would

have been embarrassing to report back to Maggie, Brandon got to his feet

with a relaxed smile. "Thanks, Carol. I appreciate it. Funny, I could

have sworn you'd have jumped at the chance to work with Tony Hill again.





The two of you hit it off so well when you worked liaison on the

Bradfield murders."





She coaxed her muscles to conjure up a smile from memory and hoped it

would pass for the real thing. "My reluctance was nothing to do with

Dr. Hill," she said, wondering whether Brandon would believe her when

she couldn't even convince herself.





"I'll let them know you'll be in touch." Brandon closed the door on his

way out, a courtesy Carol was profoundly grateful for.





"I can hardly wait," she said grimly to the empty room.





Shaz bounced through the door of the police station where the task force

was based and grinned at the uniformed officer behind the desk with

cheerful expectation. "DC Bowman," she said. "NOP task force. There

should be a package for me?"





The constable looked sceptical. "Here?"





"That's right." She glanced at her watch. "It was supposed to be sent

by overnight courier. For delivery by nine a.m. And since my watch says

it's ten past ... "





"Then you owe somebody a bollocking, because there's nowt here for you,

love," the constable said, incapable of keeping the satisfaction out of

his voice. It wasn't often he had the chance to score a point against a

task force outsider and patronize a woman in a single go.





"You sure?" Shaz asked, trying not to show the consternation that she

knew would only increase his smugness.





"I've got my reading badge, love. Trust me, I'm a bobby. There's no

package here for you." Bored now, he ostentatiously turned away and

pretended to be interested in a pile of paperwork.





Fizzing with frustration, her good mood history, Shaz bypassed the bank

of lifts and jogged up the five flights of stairs to the task force

operations room. "Never trust someone else, never trust someone else,"

pounded in her head in sync with her feet on the stairs and the blood in

her ears. She marched straight into the room that held their computer

terminals and threw herself into her chair, barely managing to grunt a

greeting to Simon, the only other occupant of the room. Shaz grabbed

her phone and punched in Chris's home number. "Bugger!" she muttered

when the answering machine picked up. She yanked her personal organizer

out of her bag and keyed in Chris's name. Her index finger stabbed out

the direct line at New Scotland Yard. The phone was answered on the

second ring. "Devine."





"It's Shaz."





"Whatever it is you're after, the answer's no, doll. I don't think I'm

ever going to get the dust and ink out from under my fingernails after

yesterday's little exercise. Definitely a non-starter on the "fun

things to do with your day off" list."





"I really appreciate it, you know that. Only ... "





Chris groaned. "What, Shaz?"





"The stuff hasn't arrived."





Chris snorted. "That all? Listen, by the time I'd got finished which I

have to tell you I only managed by flashing the old warrant card and

roping the staff in it was too late to get an overnight delivery. Best

they could do was by noon. So you should get it some time this morning.





All right?"





"It'll have to be," Shaz said, aware she was being ungracious, but

unable to care.





"Relax, doll. It's never the end of the world. You're going to give

yourself an ulcer," Chris told her.





"I've got to present my case tomorrow afternoon," Shaz pointed out.





Chris laughed. "So what's the problem? "King hell, Shaz, that

Yorkshire air's slowing you up. Time was, you were greased lightning.





You got a whole night to turn it around. Don't tell me you're getting

soft."





"I do like the odd bit of sleep between dusk and dawn," Shaz said.





"Just as well you and me never got it together, then, isn't it? Gimme a

call if you haven't got the stuff by the middle of the afternoon, all

right, doll? Just hang loose. Nobody's going to die."





"I flaming hope not," Shaz said to a dead line.





"Problems?" Simon asked, plonking himself down next to her and pushing

a mug of coffee towards her.





Shaz shrugged, reaching for the brew. "Just some stuff I wanted to

check out before we report back on the exercise tomorrow."





Simon's interest suddenly expanded beyond the erotic possibilities of a

fling with Shaz. "You on to something?" he asked, trying for

nonchalant and failing.





Shaz's grin was evil. "You mean you haven't spotted the cluster?"





"Course I have. Saw it right away, no messing," he said, clearly

blustering.





"Right. So you also found the external link?" Shaz enjoyed the

momentary blankness that crossed Simon's milk-pale face before he

regained command. She snorted with laughter. "Good try, Simon."





He shook his head. "All right, Shaz, you win. Will you tell me what

you've got if I buy you dinner tonight?"





"I'll tell you what I've got tomorrow afternoon, same time as I tell

everybody else. But if the offer's genuine and not just a bribe, I'd

say yes to a drink before we go for the curry on Saturday night."





Simon thrust out his hand. "Deal, DC Bowman." Shaz took his hand and

matched his grip.





The prospect of a pre-dinner drink with Simon, enticing though it was,

couldn't distract Shaz from the anticipation of her parcel. At coffee

break, she was at the front counter before the others had even brewed

up. For the rest of the morning, as Paul Bishop took them through the

application of a profile to a suspect list, Shaz, normally the most

attentive of students, fidgeted like a four-year-old at the opera. As

soon as they broke for lunch, Shaz was off down the stairs like a

greyhound out of a trap.





This time, her prayers were answered. A cardboard archive box sealed

with what looked like an entire roll of packing tape sat on the front

counter. "Any longer and I'd have phoned the bomb disposal squad to get

rid of it," the desk officer said. "We're a police station, not a post

office."





"Just as well. You'd never stand the pace." Shaz swept the box off the

counter and marched out to the car park with it. She opened the boot of

her car and snatched a quick look at her watch. She reckoned she had

about ten minutes to spare before her absence from the communal lunch

table would excite comment. Hastily, she ripped at the packing tape

with her fingernails, managing to unpick it enough to force the lid

open.





Her heart sank. The box was almost brimful of photocopies. For a brief

moment, she wondered if she couldn't just ignore her hunch. Then she

thought of the seven teenage girls, their faces smiling up at her with

all the expectation that, however many disappointments life might hold,

at least they'd have a life. This wasn't just an exercise. Somewhere

out there was a cold-hearted killer. And the only person who seemed to

be aware of it was Shaz Bowman. Even if it did take all night, she owed

them that effort at the very least.





Seeing him again face to face, Carol was stuck by the realization that

it was pain that lurked behind Tony Hill's face. All the time she'd

known him, she'd never recognized what underpinned his intensity. She'd

always assumed that he was like her, driven only by the desire to

capture and understand, fired by a passion to elucidate, haunted by the

things he'd seen, heard and done. Now, distance had allowed her to

comprehend what she had failed to see before, and she found herself

wondering how different her behaviour towards him would have been had

she really grasped what was going on behind his dark and troubled eyes.





Of course, he'd arranged it so that they would not be alone when they

first encountered each other after the intervening months. Paul Bishop

had been despatched to greet her when she'd arrived at the task force

base in Leeds, smothering her in the charm that had made him such a

media darling. His gallantry didn't extend to offering to carry her two

briefcases heavy with case files, and Carol noticed with amusement that

he couldn't pass a reflective surface without checking his appearance

for imperfection, now smoothing an eyebrow, now straightening broad

shoulders in a uniform that had plainly been made to measure. "I can't

tell you how thrilled I am to meet you," he said. "John Brandon's best

and brightest. Some accolade in itself, never mind your track record.





That speaks for itself, of course. Did John mention we'd been at staff

college together? What a copper that man is, and what a talent

spotter." His enthusiasm was infectious and Carol found herself

responding to his flattery in spite of her best intentions.





"I've always enjoyed working with Mr. Brandon," she said. "How are

things bedding down with the task force?"





"Oh, you'll see all that for yourself," he said dismissively, ushering

her into the lift. "Of course, Tony's been singing your praises to the

heavens. What a joy you are to work with, what a delightful colleague,

how bright, how easy to deal with." He grinned down at her. "And the

rest."





Now Carol knew he was a bullshitter. She had no doubt as to Tony's

professional respect for her, but she knew him well enough to be certain

he would never have spoken about her in personal terms. His ingrained

reticence would have taken far greater subtlety and skill to penetrate

than Paul Bishop clearly possessed. Tony would never talk about Carol

because to do so, he'd have to talk about the case that had brought them

together. And that would mean revealing far more about both of them

than any stranger had a right to know. He'd have had to explain how

she'd fallen for him and how his sexual inadequacies forced him to

reject her, how any hope of them ever getting together had been the last

victim of the murderous psychopath they'd tracked. She felt in her

bones that he would never have told another living soul these things,

and if there was one thing that raised her above her colleagues, it was

her instinct. "Mmm," she said noncommittally. "I've always admired Dr.

Hill's professionalism." Bishop brushed against her hip as he pushed

the button for the fifth floor. If I'd been a man, Carol thought, he'd

just have told me which floor to go for.





"It's a real bonus for us that you've worked with Tony before," Bishop

continued, eyeing his hair in the brushed metal doors. "Our new

trainees will be able to learn a lot from watching how you divide up the

process, how you communicate, what you both need from each other."





"You know my methods, Watson," Carol parodied wryly.





Bishop looked momentarily puzzled, then his face cleared. "Ah, yes."





The lift opened. "This way. We're going to have coffee together, just

the three of us, then you and Tony can work through the initial contact

interview with the students looking on." He strode down the corridor

and held a door open for her, standing back while she entered what

looked like a scaled-down scruffy school staff-room.





Across the room, Tony Hill swung round, coffee filter in one hand, spoon

in the other. His eyes widened at the sight of Carol and she felt a

slow smile spread irresistibly across her face. "Tony," she said,

managing to keep her voice formal. "How nice to see you."





"Carol," he greeted her, dropping the teaspoon on the table with a

clatter. "You look ... well. You look well."





She'd have been lying if she'd said the same to him. He was still pale,

though she'd seen him paler. The dark smudges under his eyes were less

like bruises than they'd been the last time the two of them had stared

at each other, but they were still the badges of someone to whom eight

hours' sleep was the impossible dream. His eyes had lost some of the

strain she'd grown accustomed to seeing there after their one memorable

case had finally been resolved, but he still looked tense. Regardless,

she wanted to kiss him.





Instead, she placed her briefcases on the long coffee table and said,

"Any chance of a brew, then?"





"Strong, black, no sugar?" Tony checked with the hint of a smile.





"You must have made an impression," Bishop said, striding past Carol and

dropping into one of the sagging chairs, carefully lifting the knees of

his trousers to avoid bagging them. "He can't remember from one day to

the next how I like mine."





"When we worked together before, it was the kind of situation where

every detail is engraved on your brain forever," Carol said

repressively.





Tony flashed her a quick look of gratitude then turned away to brew up.





"Thanks for sending the case files over," he said against the wheezing

of the elderly electric kettle. "I've had them copied and the team have

had them to study overnight."





"Fine. How do you want to play this?" Carol asked.





"I thought we could go into live role-play," Tony said, still with his

back to them as he made the coffee. "Sit across a table from each other

and run through the case file exactly the way we would do it for real."





He half-turned with a tentative smile and a spasm ran across Carol's

stomach.





Get a grip, she told herself angrily. Even if he could, he wouldn't

want you. Remember? "That sounds fine," she heard herself say. "How

were you planning on involving the trainees?"





Tony juggled the three hot mugs in his broad square hands and managed to

get them on to the coffee table without spilling much on the tobacco

brown carpet. "Specially chosen to hide the stains," he muttered,

frowning in concentration.





"There's half a dozen of them," Bishop said. "So it's not feasible to

let them each have a crack at you, even if you were willing to give up

that much of your time. They'll watch you and Tony work through the

case files. Then, if they have any questions about that part of the

process, they'll ask them. After you've gone, Tony will work with them

on the drawing up of a profile, which will be passed back to you in a

matter of days. What we're hoping is that when you develop a suspect to

the point of arresting and charging, you'll liaise with Tony on

interview strategies and allow us access to the taped interviews

afterwards." His smile said he wasn't accustomed to being refused.





"That may not be possible," Carol said cautiously, not completely sure

of her position. "You may have to wait until after a trial to have

access to the interview tapes, and then only if the interviewee agrees.





I'll need to take advice on that."





Tiny movements of muscle beneath the skin stripped Bishop's face of its

bonhomie. "My impression from Mr. Brandon was that we weren't being

slavish about formalities on this one," he said briskly.





"I'm the investigating officer here, Commander. This is not a classroom

exercise. It's an inquiry into an unlawful death and it's my intention

to get a conviction if that's appropriate. I will take absolutely no

risk that could cost me a successful prosecution. I don't leave windows

open for smart defence counsel."





"She's right," Tony said unexpectedly. "We get carried away with

ourselves here. It's heady stuff, you know, Paul. The bottom line is,

Carol has to make the case against this arsonist stand up in court, and

we can't expect her to go along with anything that might interfere with

that."





"Fine," Bishop said curtly. Ignoring his coffee, he stood up and headed

for the door. "I'll leave you to it. I've got some phone calls I need

to get out of the way if I'm going to sit in on your session. See you

later, DCI Jordan."





Carol grinned. "Would five get me ten that he'll be on the phone to

John Brandon before his backside hits the chair?"





Tony shook his head, eyes glinting with amusement. "Probably not,

actually. Paul doesn't like being crossed, but he keeps his powder dry

for the battles that matter."





"Not like me, rushing in where angels fear to tread, eh?"





Tony met her gaze and recognized the goodwill there. "Nobody's quite

like you, Carol. I was genuinely sorry that you didn't want to join the

team here."





She twitched one shoulder in a shrug. "Not my kind of policing, Tony.





Sure, I like the big cases, but I don't like living in limbo."





Her words hung between them, freighted with more meaning than any casual

bystander could have read. Tony looked away and cleared his throat.





"All the more reason why I'm pleased to have the chance to work this

case with you. If we'd already been up and running, I don't expect

you'd have come running to us with what looks on the face of it to be a

fairly straightforward serial arson that's turned nasty almost by

accident. So it's a bonus for the squad that they're going to get to

see someone as good as you at work."





"You know, all I've had since this task force was mentioned in

connection with my case is enough flattery to choke a politician," Carol

said, trying to cover her gratification with a sardonic tone.





"When did I ever offer you flattery?" Tony said simply.





Again, Carol's stomach clenched. "Maybe it's not such a good idea," she

said. "Having an officer like me along, I mean. You should have given

them a reality check and wheeled in one of the cavemen," she added,

struggling to keep her smile in place.





Tony laughed in delight. "Can you imagine? Great session that would

be." He dropped his voice and broadened his Yorkshire accent. "Right

bloody load of crap this is. You want me to go round asking me suspects

if they pissed the bed when they were kids?"





"I'd forgotten you were from round here," Carol said.





"I hadn't," Tony said. "Back in the West Riding, last place on earth I

ever wanted to be. But I wanted the task force, and the Home Office

were adamant we had to be based outside London. God forbid we should do

anything sensible like billet the profiling squad with the intelligence

unit. How are you finding it out in the primeval ooze of Seaford?"





Carol shrugged. "Life among the dinosaurs? Ask me in six months." She

glanced at her watch. "What time are we due to kick off?"





"Couple of minutes."





"Fancy catching up over lunch?" She'd practised the casual tone half a

hundred times on the motorway coming over to Leeds.





"I can't." He looked genuinely sorry. "We eat together in the squad.





But I was going to ask you ... "





"Yes?" Careful, Carol, not too eager!





"Are you in a hurry to get back?"





"No, no rush." Her heart singing, yes, yes, he's going to ask me to

dinner.





"Only, I wondered if you'd like to sit in on the afternoon session?"





"Right." Her voice bright, her hopes squashed, the light in her eyes

dulled. "Any particular reason?"





"I set them an exercise last week. They're supposed to produce their

conclusions today and I thought it might be helpful to have your

response to their analyses."





"Fine."





Tony took a shallow breath and said, "Plus, I thought we could maybe

have a drink afterwards?"





Apprehension and anticipation had pitched Shaz on an adrenaline high.





Even though she'd only squeezed three hours' sleep out of the night, she

was buzzing like a raver on an amphetamine high. She'd attacked the

photocopied newspapers the minute she'd got home, laying them out in

piles on her living-room carpet and pausing only to phone for a pizza.





So engrossed was she that she didn't even notice when they sent her a

ten-inch Margarita and charged her for a twelve-inch with everything on.





By one in the morning, she'd eliminated everything except the

entertainments ads and the sports pages. Her earlier conviction that

the external link that would prove her contention was lurking in the

local papers was starting to look less like a solid hunch than a

desperate clutching at straws. Stretching her stiff back and rubbing

her gritty eyes, Shaz got to her feet and staggered through to the

kitchen to brew another Thermos of coffee.





Refuelled, she returned to her task, deciding to go for the sports pages

first. Maybe the same visiting football team with its loyal supporters?





Or a player who had moved from club to club and then become a manager?





Maybe a local golf championship that attracted outsiders, or a series of

bridge trophies? Eliminating all the sporting possibilities took

another couple of hours, and left Shaz jittery with exhaustion, caffeine

and a looming fear of failure.





When the connection finally emerged, her first response was that she was

hallucinating. It was so outrageous an idea she couldn't take it

seriously. She caught herself giggling nervously, like a child who

hasn't yet learned the appropriate response to the pain of others. "This

is crazy," she said softly, double-checking through all seven sets of

newspapers to confirm she wasn't seeing things. She lurched stiffly to

her feet, trying to loosen her cramped muscles, and staggered through to

the bedroom, stripping her clothes off as she went. It was too much to

take in at half past three in the morning. Setting her alarm for half

past six, Shaz fell face down on the bed where sleep hit her like a

truck colliding with a motorway bridge.





Shaz dreamed about television game shows where the winner got to choose

how they'd be killed. When the alarm clock went off, she dreamed it was

a buzzer on an electric chair. Still groggy from sleep, her memory of

what she'd unearthed in the newspapers felt like an extension of the

nightmare. She pushed the duvet back and tiptoed through to the living

room as if normal footfalls would scare her discovery away.





There were seven ragged piles of photocopies. On the top of each pile

was a page from the entertainment section. Each page contained either

an advertisement for a personal appearance or a featured interview with

the same man. However she cut it, it looked as if one of the nation's

darlings was somehow tied in to the disappearance and presumed murder of

at least seven teenage girls.





And now she was going to have to share her revelation.





It wasn't difficult to set tongues wagging, Micky had soon discovered.





Whenever she visited the rehabilitation unit where Jacko was learning

how to use his artificial arm, they made a point of closing the door of

his room and sitting close together so that when





they were interrupted by a physio or a nurse, they could spring apart

and appear embarrassed.





At work, she would phone him when the surrounding desks were occupied

and she was almost certain to be overheard. The conversations would

swing between animated hilarity, with his name dropped in at regular

intervals, and the low, intimate tones her colleagues would

unimaginatively associate only with lovers.





Finally, to move things up a gear, it was time for scandal and drama.





Micky chose a friend on a middle-market tabloid. Three days later, the

paper splashed with PERVERT TARGETS JACKO'S NEW LOVE.





Lifesaving hero Jacko Vance's new girlfriend has become the target of a

terrifying campaign of vandalism and hate mail.





Since the start of their whirlwind romance, TV journalist Micky Morgan

has had paint thrown over her car dead mice and birds posted through her

letter box a vicious series of poison pen letters sent to her home.





The couple met when she interviewed the world record-holding javelin

star in hospital after the motorway pile-up where Jacko's tragic heroism

cost him his lower right arm and his Olympic dream. They had been

trying to keep their affair under wraps.





But we can exclusively reveal that their secret has leaked to someone

who bears a grudge against attractive blonde Micky, a popular reporter

on Six O'Clock World.





Last night, at her West London home, Micky said, "It's been a nightmare.





We've no idea who's behind it. I just wish they'd stop.





"We've been keeping our relationship to ourselves because we wanted to

get to know each other better without the glare of publicity. We're

very much in love. The private man is even more exciting than the

person the public sees.





"He's brave and he's beautiful. How could I not be madly in love? All

we want now is for this heartless campaign to end."





A spokesman for Jacko, who is undergoing intensive rehabilitation and

physiotherapy at London's exclusive Martingale Clinic, said, "Jacko is

obviously disgusted that anyone should treat Micky like this. She's the

most wonderful woman he's ever met. Whoever is behind this better hope

the police catch them before he does."





Jacko, who ended his engagement to (Continued on page 4)





The press coverage was hectic for a couple of weeks, then it slowly died

away, resurfacing every now and again whenever something happened to

either of the alleged lovers. Jacko's emergence from rehab into his old

life; his hiring as a TV sports presenter; Micky's new job as an

interviewer on breakfast television; Jacko's voluntary work with the

terminally ill; all of these and more refreshed interest in their

supposed affair. They soon learned it was necessary for them to be seen

together somewhere public and high profile at least once a week to avoid

speculation in the gossip columns. Often, knowing they were being

followed, Jacko ended up spending the night under the same roof as the

two women after he and Micky had been clubbing or charity working. After

nearly a year of this, Micky summoned Jacko to a powwow over dinner with

Betsy.





Her lover's culinary skills had not deserted her since the years she had

spent catering for boardroom lunches. As he swallowed the last morsel,

Jacko gave the two women his most wolfish grin. "It must be bad," he

said, ' it took something that good to soften me up."





Betsy smiled demurely. "You haven't had the sticky toffee pudding with

home-made hazelnut ice cream yet."





Jacko pretended to be shocked. "If I was a police officer, you could be

arrested for an offer like that."





"We do have a proposition for you," Micky said.





"Something tells me you're not talking three in a bed," he said, rocking

gently on the back legs of the chair.





"You might try and sound a little disappointed," Betsy said drily. "The

idea that we're so unappealing is bad for what the Americans so

charmingly call our self-esteem."





Jacko's smile reminded Micky disturbingly of Jack Nicholson. "Betsy, my

dear, if you knew what I like to do with my women, you'd be profoundly

grateful for my lack of interest."





"Actually, our ignorance on that very point is one of the factors that

has made us reluctant to put our proposal to you before now," Betsy

said, briskly clearing the plates and carrying them through to the small

kitchen.





"I'm intrigued now," Jacko said, tipping forward with a slight thump and

leaning his prosthetic arm on the table. He held Micky's eyes in a

glittering stare. "Spill the beans, Micky."





Betsy appeared in the kitchen doorway and leaned against the jamb. "It's

awfully time consuming, this silly business of you and Micky having to

go out enjoying yourselves. I don't mind in the slightest that she's

out with you. It's just that we'd both rather spend what limited time

we can spare together."





"You want to call the whole thing off?" Jacko frowned.





"Quite the opposite," Betsy said, sitting down at the table again and

placing her hand over Micky's. "We rather thought it might be a good

idea if the two of you were to get married."





He looked astonished. Micky thought she had never seen a more genuine

expression cross Jacko Vance's carefully controlled features. "Married,"

he echoed. It wasn't a question.





Shaz looked around the seminar room again, assessing her audience,

hoping she wasn't about to make a complete fool of herself. She tried

to second-guess where the objections would come from and what they'd be.





Simon would pick holes on principle, she knew that. Leon would tilt his

chair back and smoke, the ghost of a sneer on his mouth, then find some

load-bearing prop in her argument and demolish it. Kay would cavil and

quibble over details, never seeing the big picture. Tony, she hoped,

would be quietly impressed with her brilliance in spotting the cluster

and her diligence in pursuing it to a demonstrable external connection.





Her groundwork would be the trigger for a major inquiry and when the

dust finally settled, her future would be sealed. The woman who nailed

the celebrity serial killer. She'd be a legend in squad rooms up and

down the country. She'd be in a position to pick her billet.





Carol Jordan was the wild card. A morning watching her work with Tony

hadn't provided nearly enough raw material for accurate conjecture about

her response to Shaz's theory. To leave as little to chance as

possible, she'd have to hang back and let a couple of her colleagues go

first so she could watch Carol carefully while they presented their

reports.





Leon went first. Shaz was surprised by the brevity of his report, and

she didn't think she was the only one. He said that while there were

clearly similarities between certain of the cases, given the number of

teenage runaways recorded annually it was hard to argue





IOZ





that there was any statistical significance in that. He had, seemingly

grudgingly, chosen four girls from the West Country, including one of

Shaz's cluster. The connecting factor he'd identified was that all four

were reported to have harboured ambitions to become models. He

suggested they might have been abducted by one or more pornographers

under the pretext of offering them the opportunity to become

photographers' models then suckered into a life of blue movies and sex

for sale.





A short silence was followed by a few apathetic comments from the room.





Then Carol said coolly, "And how long did you spend on this analysis,

Mr. Jackson?"





Leon's eyebrows descended. "There wasn't a lot to analyse," he said

belligerently. "I did what it took."





"If I were the investigating officer who had handed this material to

you, I would be rather underwhelmed by something so superficial," Carol

said. "I'd feel disappointed, short-changed, and I'd have a pretty low

opinion of a specialist unit which produced nothing of more significance

than one of my own officers could have provided in an afternoon's work."





Leon's mouth opened in astonishment. Neither Tony nor Bishop had ever

been so openly critical of anyone's work. Before he could respond, Tony

cut in. "DCI Jordan's right, Leon. It's not good enough. We're

supposed to be an elite squad, and we're not going to make any friends

if we don't treat every assignment as something serious and worthy of

our attention. It doesn't matter if we think a group of cases are

Mickey Mouse. To the investigating officers, they're important. To the

victims, they're important."





"This was just an exercise," Leon protested. "There isn't an

investigating officer. It's just playtime. You can't get worked up

about that!" The whine in his voice said, "It's not fair!" louder than

the actual words.





"As I understand it, every one of these cases is real," Carol said

quietly. "Every one of those kids is on the missing list. Some of them

are almost certainly dead. The pain of uncertainty can often be more

damaging than knowledge of the truth. If we ignore people's pain, we

deserve their contempt."





Shaz watched Tony's impassive face incline in a tiny acknowledgement of

Carol's words, then followed his eyes across to Leon, who had compressed

his mouth into a thin line, half-turning in his seat so he didn't have

to look at Carol. "Right," said Tony. "We've established that DCI

Jordan doesn't do polite. Who's next for the high jump?"





Shaz could barely contain her impatience during Kay's report, a

pedestrian but painstakingly thorough analysis that forged several

possible groups with an assortment of linkages. One was identical to

Shaz's own cluster, but it was given no extra weight compared to the

others. When the recital drew to a close, Tony looked happier. "A

thorough piece of work," he said, the unspoken '' hanging in the air

like a relay baton.





Carol picked up the challenge. "Yes, but it sounds like you're sitting

on the fence. An investigating officer wants information presented in a

way that underpins specific initiatives. So you need to prioritize your

conclusions. "This is quite likely, this is less likely, this is

tenuous, this is frankly improbable." That lets the officers on the

ground structure their inquiries in the most productive way."





"In fairness, it's hard to do that in the vacuum of a classroom

exercise," Tony added. "But we should always attempt to do it. Any

ideas regarding the order of priority we should be looking at here?"





Shaz barely contributed to the vigorous discussion that followed. She

was too nervous about what lay ahead to care about the impression she

might be making. A couple of times, she caught a stray look of inquiry

from Carol Jordan, and responded with some innocuous comment.





Then, suddenly, it was her turn. Shaz cleared her throat and assembled

her papers in front of her. "Although there are several superficial

similarities that pull together a variety of potential groupings, closer

analysis reveals that there is one strong cluster linked by a nexus of

common factors," she began firmly. "What I intend to show this

afternoon is that this cluster is further linked by a significant common

external factor and the irresistible conclusion is that the members of

this cluster are the victims of a single serial killer."





She looked up, hearing a gasp from Kay and a guffaw from Leon. Tony

looked startled, but Carol Jordan was leaning forward, chin on her

fists, gripped. Shaz allowed a small smile to twitch one corner of her

mouth. "I'm not making this up, I promise you," she said, distributing

stapled pages of photocopies around the table.





"Seven cases," she said. The first page you have in front of you is a

table listing the common features in these seven disappearances. One of

those key connections, in my view, is that all seven girls took a change

of clothes with them. But they didn't go for the kind of things you'd

choose if you were planning on running away and living on the streets.





In every case, what they went missing with was their "best" gear, the

fashion outfits they'd have worn if they were going out on a special

date, not trainers for walking the streets and ski jackets for staying

warm at night. I know teenagers aren't always sensible when it comes to

what they wear, but remember, our sample weren't irresponsible, out of

control, wild-child girls."





She glanced up and was gratified to see that Tony was now as rapt as

Carol Jordan. "In each case, they didn't turn up for school and had

lied in advance about what they were doing afterwards to give themselves

a clear run of about twelve hours. Only one of them had ever come to

the notice of the police or social services and that was for shoplifting

when she was twelve. They weren't delinquent, they didn't do drink or

drugs to any significant degree.





"Now, if you turn to page two, you'll see I've laid out their

photographs scaled down to the same size. Don't you think there's a

remarkable physical similarity?" Shaz paused for effect.





"That's eerie," Simon muttered. "I can't believe I didn't see that."





"It's more than physical," Carol said, sounding faintly bemused.





"There's a look they've all got. Something ... almost sexual."





"They're dying to become former virgins," Leon told the room. "That's

what it is. Unmistakable."





"Whatever it is," Shaz interrupted, ''ve all got it. The cases are

geographically scattered, the time frame is six years at irregular

intervals, but the victims look practically interchangeable. Now,

that's strong evidence in itself. But Tony's taught us that we should

also be looking for external connectors; factors outside the victim's

control or influence that are common. Factors that link to the killer,

not the victim.





"I asked myself where I might find the relevant external link that would

tie together my cluster of putative victims." Shaz picked up another

pile of stapled photocopies and passed them round. "Local newspapers. I

trawled the local papers for two weeks either side of each

disappearance. And in the early hours of this morning, I found what I

was looking for. You've got it in front of you. Just before each one

of these girls died, the same very public personality was in their home

town. And each and every one of them, let's not forget, went off with

the one and only outfit they'd have chosen from their wardrobes if they

were planning on impressing a man."





The murmur of disbelief was already rising around her as the enormity of

Shaz's suggestion hit them. "That's right," she said. "I couldn't

believe it either. I mean, who's going to believe the nation's

favourite sporting hero and TV personality is a serial killer? And

who's going to authorize an investigation of Jacko Vance?"





The soft whimper seemed to be swallowed by the chill darkness. Donna

Doyle had never felt more frightened in her short life. She'd never

realized that fear could act like an anaesthetic, apprehension dulling

excruciating agony to a throbbing ache. What had already happened had

been terrible enough. But not knowing what the future held was almost

worse.





It had all started so well. She'd kept the secret, in spite of the way

it kept bubbling up inside her, almost seeming to press against her lips

and demand release. But she knew he'd meant what he'd said about the

importance of confidentiality, and this was too good a chance to miss.





Excitement at her new prospects had buoyed her up, allowing her to

stifle her awareness that what she was doing would cause uproar at home.





She rationalized her failure to inform her mother of her plans by

telling herself that when everything worked out as she dreamed, there

would be so much joy that the trouble would be forgotten. Deep down,

she knew that was a lie, but she couldn't bear to let that knowledge

interfere with her elation.





Bunking off school had been easy. She'd set off as usual, then, instead

of turning in down the road leading to school, she'd carried on into the

town centre where she'd dodged into the public lavatories and changed

into the clothes she'd carefully folded into her school backpack instead

of books. Her best outfit, she knew, making her look older than she

was, making her look like the young women she saw on MTV, cool as fuck.





In the dim light of the toilet, she applied her make-up and pouted at

the mirror. God, she looked good. But would it be good enough for him?





He'd picked her out when she wasn't even dressed up to the nines, she

reminded herself. He'd seen her star quality. Dressed like this, she'd

knock him dead. Wouldn't she?





The memory of that nonchalant self-confidence was like a sick joke to

Donna now, lying in pain and fear in the dark. But at the time it had

been more than enough to get her through the day. She'd caught a bus

into Manchester, hanging back until it was about to leave, making sure

there wasn't one of the neighbours or her mother's boring friends on

board. Then she'd run upstairs, sitting at the back so she could see

who got on and off.





Having a few hours in Manchester on a weekday on her own was almost

adventure enough in itself. She browsed the department stores, played

the fruit machines in the video arcades, bought a couple of lottery

scratch cards in a news agent near the station and told herself that

winning ten straight off wasn't just a result, it was an omen. By the

time she boarded the train, she was irrepressibly high, more than

capable of ignoring the nerves that still fluttered annoyingly in her

stomach when she thought of what her mum was going to say.





Changing trains wasn't quite so much fun. It was growing dark, and she

couldn't understand a word anyone on Newcastle station tannoy said. They

didn't sound like Jimmy Nail or Kevin Whately off the telly. They

sounded like aliens. Somehow, she managed to find the right platform

for Five Walls Halt and nervously boarded the train, aware that she was

among strangers with curious faces who eyed her short skirt and dramatic

make-up with predatory eyes. Donna's imagination began to work

overtime, translating weary commuters into stalkers and mad axe men





It had been a relief to get off the train and find him waiting in the

car park, just like he'd said. And it had been lovely. He'd said all

the right things, reassuring her and convincing her she'd done the right

thing. He was lovely, she told herself, not a bit like she expected

someone off the telly to be.





As they'd driven down narrow country roads, he'd explained that they

wouldn't be able to do the screen test until morning, but that he hoped

she'd have dinner with him. He said he had a cottage, that she could

stay overnight, there was a spare room, which would save him having to

drive after he'd had a glass or two of wine. If she didn't mind, of

course. Otherwise, he could take her to a hotel.





The part of her that had been well brought up and drilled to wariness

wanted to go instantly to a hotel where she could phone her mother and

reveal that she was safe and well. But it wasn't an enticing prospect,

a night in a lonely room in a strange place where she knew no one, with

no company except the TV and her mum complaining down the phone line.





The other voice in her head, the tempting adventurous voice, told her

she'd never have a chance like this to make her mark. Having him to

herself for a whole evening would be the perfect opportunity to impress

him so much that the screen test would be a formality.





The voice she stifled through a mixture of apprehension and anticipation

pointed out that there might never be a more propitious time to lose her

virginity.





"Staying with you'd be great," she said.





He smiled, briefly turning his eyes away from the road. "I promise

we'll have fun," he said.





And he hadn't been lying. Not to begin with, anyway. The food had been

wonderful, like the really expensive stuff from Marks and Spencer that

her mum always said they couldn't afford. And they'd had wine. Lots of

different kinds. Champagne to start with, then white wine with the

starters, then red with the main course and a sticky aromatic golden one

with the pudding. She'd had no idea there were so many

different-tasting ones. He'd been lovely, all through dinner. He'd

been funny and flirty and full of stories that made her smile and hug

herself inside because she was learning all these secrets about telly

people.





And he seemed to find her entertaining, too. He was always asking her

what she thought, what she felt, who she liked on TV and who she hated.





He was interested, staring deep into her eyes and really paying

attention, like men were supposed to when they fancied you, not like the

lads she'd gone out with from school who were only interested in

football and how far you'd let them go. It was obvious he fancied her.





But he wasn't slobbering all over her like some dirty old man. He was

considerate, treating her like she was a person. With all the

conversation, phoning her mum had been the last thing on her mind.





By the end of the meal, she'd been pleasantly woozy. Not drunk, not

like at Emma Lomas's party when she'd had five bottles of extra-strong

cider and thrown up for hours. Just a bit blurred round the edges,

filled with happiness and desire to feel his warm flesh against hers, to

bury her face in the citrus and woody smell of his cologne, to make her

fantasies reality.





When he got up to make coffee, she followed, a little unsteady on her

feet, conscious of the giddiness that made the room sway gently but not

unpleasantly. She came up behind him and slipped her arms round his

waist. "I think you're gorgeous," she said. "Fantastic."





He'd turned and let her lean into him, burying his face in her hair and

nuzzling her ear. "You're very special," he murmured. "Very special."





She felt his erection hard against her stomach. For a moment, a thrill

of fear squirmed through her, then his lips were on hers and she was

lost to the sensation of what felt like her first kiss. They kissed for

what seemed like a lifetime, a dizzying parade of colours spinning

behind her eyes as arousal sent her blood charging through her veins.





Almost without her realizing, he moved her gradually round so that her

back was against the workbench and he was facing her, still kissing, his

tongue darting in and out of her mouth. Suddenly, without warning, his

hand clamped over her wrist and yanked her arm to one side. Donna felt

cold metal against her flesh and her eyes jerked open. At the same

moment, their mouths parted.





Baffled, she looked at her arm, not understanding why it was pinned

between the two faces of a big steel vice. He stepped back and quickly

spun the handle so the jaws closed on the flushed flesh of her naked

arm. Vainly, she tried to pull away. But there was no escape. She was

trapped by the arm, pinioned to the workbench vice. "What are you

doing?" she squealed. All her face revealed was hurt puzzlement. It

was too soon for fear.





His face was blank. An impassive mask had replaced the interest and

affection she'd seen there all evening. "You're all the same, aren't

you?" he said dispassionately. "You're all out for what you can get."





"What are you talking about?" Donna entreated him. "Let me go, this

isn't funny. It hurts." With her free arm, she reached across her body

towards the handle of the vice. He raised his arm and smashed her in

the face with a backhanded swipe that sent her reeling.





"You do as you're told, you treacherous bitch," he said, still sounding

calm.





Donna tasted blood. A rending sob broke from her throat. "I don't

understand," she stuttered. "What did I do wrong?"





"You throw yourself at me because you think I'll get you what you want.





You tell me you love me. But if you woke up tomorrow and I couldn't

give you what you wanted, you'd throw yourself at the next meal ticket

that walked past." He leaned against her, pressing his body to hers,

his weight preventing her from making another attempt at releasing the

vice.





"I don't know what you're on about," Donna whined. "I never ... Aagh!"





Her voice rose in a yell of pain as he turned the vice tighter. Pain

shot up her arm as muscle and bone were compacted, the edges of the vice

cutting deep and cruel into the tissue of her arm. As her scream

subsided into tearful entreaty, he half-turned so that his weight was

still on her free arm and tore her dress from top to bottom with one

powerful wrench.





Now she was really afraid. She couldn't understand why he was doing

this. All she'd wanted was to love him, to be chosen by him to appear

on the telly. It wasn't supposed to be like this. It was supposed to

be romantic and tender and beautiful, but this was senseless and stupid

and she couldn't believe how much her arm was hurting and all she wanted

was for it to stop.





He'd barely begun. Within moments, her knickers were in a torn heap at

her feet, deep welts in her side where the fabric had bitten into her

skin before the seams had finally yielded to his force. Shaking with

sobs, her voice a mumbling of meaningless pleadings, she had no

resources left to resist as he unzipped his trousers and thrust his cock

into her.





It wasn't the pain of losing her virginity that Donna remembered. It

was the agony that coursed through her when he bore down on the vice in

rhythm with the thrusting of his hips into hers. The breaking of her

hymen went unnoticed among the splintering of the bones of her wrist and

forearm and the pulverizing of her flesh between the blank metal plates.





As she lay in the dark, she was glad only that she'd passed out then.





She didn't know where she was or how she'd got there. All she knew was

that she was blessedly alone. And that was enough. For now, that was

enough.





Tony walked down Briggate, hands thrust deep into his jacket pockets

against the cold, swerving to avoid the last straggles of shoppers and

the weary-footed sales assistants making for the bus stops. He deserved

a drink. It had been a difficult afternoon. For a time it had looked

as if the group spirit nurtured from day one was about to become a

memory as differences of opinion escalated into argument then teetered

on the edge of hurling abuse.





The first response to Shaz's dramatic hypothesis had been stunned

silence. Then Leon had slapped his leg and rocked to and fro on his

chair. "Shazza, baby," he yelled. "You are more full of shit than a

sewage farm, but you are the best value in town! All right, baby, way

to go!"





"Hang on a minute, Leon," Simon objected. "You're quick off the mark to

slap the girl down. What if she's right?"





"Oh, yeah," Leon drawled contemptuously. "Like Jacko Vance is obviously

a psychopathic serial killer. You've only got to watch him on the

telly. Or read about him in the tabloids. Yeah, Jack the Lad, marriage

made in heaven, England's glory, the hero who sacrificed his arm and his

Olympic medal so that others might live. Very Jeffrey Dahmer, very

Peter Sutcliffe. Not."





Tony had kept half an eye on Shaz during Leon's outburst, noticing the

apparent darkening of her eyes and the tense line of her mouth. She

couldn't handle mockery the way she dealt with straightforward

criticism, he realized. As Leon paused for breath, Tony jumped in with

a dose of irony. "I just love the cut and thrust of intellectual

debate," he said. "So, Leon, how about you stop showing off and provide

us with some cogent argument against the case that Shaz is making?"





Leon scowled, unable as usual to disguise his emotions. Hiding behind

the lighting of a cigarette, he mumbled something.





"Can you let us have that again?" Carol interjected sweetly.





"I said, I didn't think Jacko Vance's personality fit our general terms

of reference for serial offenders," he repeated.





"How do you know that?" Kay cut in. "All we ever see of Jacko Vance is

the image manufactured by the media. Some serial killers have been

superficially charming and manipulative. Like Ted Bundy. If you're

going to be a top athlete, you have to develop phenomenal self-control.





Maybe that's what we're seeing with Jacko Vance. A totally synthetic

front covering up a psychopathic personality."





"Spot on," Simon said vigorously.





"But he's been married a dozen years or more. Would his wife have

stayed with him if he was a psychopath? I mean, he couldn't maintain

the mask permanently," someone objected.





"Sonia Sutcliffe always asserted she was totally unaware that her

husband went out topping prostitutes the way some men go to football

matches. And Rosemary West still claims she had no idea Fred was using

bodies for foundations under their patio extension," Carol pointed out.





"Yeah, and think about it," Simon urged, ' with jobs like Micky

Morgan and Jacko Vance, they're not like the rest of us. Half the time

Jacko's on the road doing Vance's Visits. Then there's all his hospital

voluntary work. And Micky must be in the studio at the crack of sparrow

fart getting prepared for her programme. They probably see less of each

other than coppers see of their kids."





"It's an interesting point," Tony said, cutting across a couple of loud

interjections. "What do you think, Shaz? It's your theory, after all."





Shaz's jaw was set mutinously. "I don't hear anybody arguing against my

identification of the cluster as a significant entity," she started.





"We-ell," Kay said. "I'm wondering how significant it really is. I

mean, I pulled together several clusters that maybe are just as validly

connected. The girls who the police thought might have been sexually

abused, for example."





"No," Shaz said firmly. "Not with as many linking factors as this

group. It's worth saying again that some of the things that connect

them are unusual features, unusual enough for investigating officers to

make a particular note of them. Like taking their best clothes with

them." Tony was pleased to see she was undaunted by this latest example

of Kay's constant nit-picking.





Her rebuttal didn't win her a reprieve, however. "Of course you'd note

that," Leon chipped in, never squashed for long. "It's the single

factor that indicates you're looking at a runaway rather than the victim

of a serial killer. You didn't make a note of it, you'd be a pretty

crap detective."





"Like the one who didn't even notice the cluster in the first place?"





Shaz demanded belligerently.





Leon cast his eyes upwards and stubbed out his cigarette. "You women,

when you get an idea in your heads ... "





"Christ, you talk shite sometimes," Simon said. "If we could just get

back to what this is supposed to be about ... I'm wondering how much of

a coincidence it is that Vance visited those towns. I mean, we don't

know how many public appearances he does in the average week. It maybe

that he's constantly on the road, in which case it wouldn't mean a lot."





"Exactly," Kay backed him up. "Did you check the local newspapers for

the missing kids who aren't in your cluster to see if Vance turned up

there as well?"





Shaz's pursed lips gave the answer before she even opened her mouth. "I

didn't have the chance," she admitted reluctantly. "Maybe you'd like to

take on that little task, Kay?"





"If it was a real operation, you'd have to follow up Kay's suggestion,"

Carol pointed out. "But you would have the bodies and time to do it,

which you didn't have here. I must say, I'm impressed with what you

have achieved with the limited time and resources available." Shaz's

shoulders squared at Carol's praise, but as the DCI continued, she

looked wary. "However, even if it's a genuine connection, it's too much

of a leap in the dark to point the finger straight at Jacko Vance. If

these disappearances and presumed murders are connected to his

appearances, it's much more likely that the perpetrator is a member of

Jacko's entourage or even a member of the public who has an initiating

stress or in his past that connects to Vance. At its most obvious,

perhaps he was rejected by a woman who was a big fan of Jacko's. These

would be my first areas of interest, before I came to the assumption

that Jacko himself was involved."





"It's a point of view," Shaz said, momentarily mortified that she'd been

so carried away with her headline-grabbing theory that she hadn't

considered that possibility. It was the nearest Tony had ever seen her

come to a concession. "But you think the cluster is worth pursuing?"





Carol had looked desperately at Tony. "I ... uh ... "





Coming to her rescue, he'd said, This was only ever going to be an

exercise, Shaz. We've got no authority to take any of these cases any

further."





She looked devastated. "But there's a cluster here. Seven suspicious

disappearances. Those girls, they've got families."





Leon butted in again, sarcasm back in full working order. "C'mon,

Shazza. Get them synapses working. We're supposed to be clearing

things up for the plods on the street, not finding more work for them to

do. D'you really think anybody's going to thank us for stirring up a

load of aggro over a theory that's dead easy to dismiss out of hand as

the product of the fevered minds of a bunch of rookies on a special

squad that nobody much wants on the job anyway?"





"Fine," Shaz said bitterly. "Let's just forget I spoke, eh? So whose

turn is it to be shot down in flames next? Simon? We going to get the

benefit of your words of wisdom now?"





Tony had taken Shaz's seeming capitulation as a signal to move on. The

other team members' analyses had been considerably less controversial,

which had allowed him to demonstrate useful tips and pitfalls in data

sifting and the developing of conclusions from raw material. As the

afternoon had worn on, he'd noticed Shaz slowly recover from the

combative reception her ideas had been given. Gradually, she had ceased

to look desolate, moving through crestfallen to an air of stubborn

determination that he found slightly worrying. Some time in the next

few days, he'd have to make time to have a word with her, to point out

the quality of much of her analysis and explain the importance of

keeping apparently wild conclusions private until she could back them up

with something more solid than a hunch.





He turned off the main street into the narrow alley that housed

Whitelocks pub, an old-fashioned relic that had somehow survived the

years when the city centre died at half past five. If he was honest,

the last thing he felt like was a drink with Carol. The history between

them meant theirs could never be entirely easy encounters, and tonight

he had something he ought to tell her that she wouldn't want to hear.





At the bar, he ordered a pint of bitter and found a quiet table in the

far corner. He'd never been one to shirk his obligations. But Shaz's

failure to consider one of Jacko Vance's fans or a member of his

entourage as a possibility had reminded him of the importance of waiting

for data before exposing theories to the harsh scrutiny of others. Just

for once, Tony thought he'd take his own mental advice to Shaz and say

nothing of his ideas until he too had more evidence.





It had taken Carol half an hour to escape from the probing questions of

the two women task force officers. She had the distinct feeling that if

she hadn't taken so very definite a leave, the one with the eyes, Shaz,

would have pinned her to the wall until she'd sucked her dry of every

piece of pertinent information, and a fair amount of impertinent. By the

time she pushed open the etched glass door of the pub, she was convinced

he'd have given up on her and left.





She saw his wave of greeting as soon as she approached the bar. He was

sitting in a wood-panelled nook at the far end of the room, the remains

of a pint of bitter in front of him. "Same again?" she mouthed, making

the universal gesture of a hand tipping a glass.





Tony placed one index finger across the top of the other to form a T.





Carol grinned. Moments later, she placed a straight glass of Tetley's

in front of Tony and sat down opposite him with her own half-pint.





"Driving," she said succinctly.





"I took the bus. Cheers," he added, raising his glass.





"Cheers. It's good to see you."





"And you."





Carol's answering smile was wry. "I wonder if there'll ever come a time

when you and I can sit opposite each other and not feel there's a third

person at the table?" She couldn't help it. It was like a scab she was

impelled to pick, always convinced that this time it wouldn't draw

blood.





He looked away. "Actually," he said, ''re about the only person who

doesn't make me feel like that. Thanks for coming today. I know it

probably wasn't the way you would have chosen to reopen our ... "





"Acquaintance?" Carol said, unable to avoid a sour note.





"Friendship?"





It was her turn to look away. "I hope so," she said. "I hope friend

ship." It was less than the truth and they both knew it, but it served

its purpose. Carol found a frail smile. "An interesting bunch, your

baby profilers."





They are, aren't they? I suppose you saw what they've all got in

common?"





"If ambition was illegal they'd all be doing life. In the next cell to

Paul Bishop."





Tony nearly choked on his mouthful of beer, spraying the table and

narrowly missing Carol's cream twill jacket. "I see you haven't lost

your killer instinct," he spluttered.





"What's to be coy about? You can't miss it. High octane aspiration. It

fills the room like testosterone in a nightclub. Doesn't it worry you

that they all see the task force as a stepping stone in their brilliant

careers?"





Tony shook his head. "No. Maybe half of them will use it as a

springboard to what they perceive as greater things. The other half

think that's what they're doing, but actually they're going to fall in

love with profiling and they're never going to want to do anything

else."





"Name names."





"Simon, the lad from Glasgow. He's got that sceptical turn of mind that

takes nothing on trust. Dave, the sergeant. He likes the idea that

it's methodical and logical yet it still has space for flair. But the

real star is going to be Shaz. She doesn't know it yet, but she's been

bitten by the bug. Don't you think?"





She nodded. "She's an obsessive workaholic and she can't wait to get to

grips with the screwed-up minds out there on the street." She cocked

her head to one side. "Know what?"





"What?"





"She reminded me of you."





Tony looked like he couldn't decide whether to be offended or amused and

settled for puzzled. "How odd," he said. "She reminded me of you."





"What!" Carol exclaimed, startled.





"This afternoon's presentation. The basic work was solid. The cluster

she'd identified is definitely worth consideration as a phenomenon." He

spread his hands and opened his eyes wide. "To jump from that to the

conclusion that Jacko Vance is a serial killer was a leap of imagination

unrivalled since your virtuoso performance in the Bradfield case!"





Carol couldn't help laughing at his histrionics. "But I was right," she

protested.





"You may have been right in fact, but you broke all the laws of logic

and probability to get there."





"Maybe Shaz is right. And maybe we're just better at profiling than the

boys," Carol teased.





Tony grunted. "I wouldn't deny the possibility that girls are better at

this," he said. "But I can't believe you think Shaz is right."





Carol pulled a face. "Six months down the road, she'll be mortified she

even suggested it."





"Knowing cops, one of that bunch will probably set her up with a

face-to-face on Vance's Visits."





Carol shuddered. "I can see it now. Jacko Vance nailed to the wall by

those extraordinary eyes, Shaz saying, "And where were you on the night

of iyth January 1993?" When they'd both stopped laughing, she added,

"I'll be fascinated to see what she conics up with for my serial

arsonist."





"Mmm," Tony said.





She raised her glass in a toast. "To the mumbo jumbo squad."





"May we be a long time in heaven before the devil notices we're gone,"

he responded wryly and drained his glass. "Another?"





Carol looked at her watch consideringly. It wasn't that she had to be

anywhere; she wanted a moment to decide whether it was better to leave

things on this pleasant footing or stay for another drink with the risk

they might end up putting the distance back between each other. Deciding

not to chance it, she shook her head regretfully. "No can do, I'm

afraid. I want to catch the night-shift CID team before they all

disappear into the twilight zone." She swallowed the last half-inch of

beer and stood up. "I'm glad we had the chance for a chat."





"Me too. Come back on Monday, we'll have something for you then."





"Great."





"Drive safely," he said as she turned to go.





She half-turned. "I will. And you take care."





Then she was gone. Tony sat for a while staring into his empty glass

considering why someone might set fires without the pay-off of a sexual

thrill. When the glimmer of an idea crept into his mind, he got up and

walked alone through the echoing streets.





It wasn't the laughter of Shaz's colleagues that smarted like shampoo in

her eyes. It wasn't even Carol Jordan's metaphorical pat on the head.





It was Tony's sympathy. Instead of being bowled over by the quality of

her work and the incisiveness of her insights, Tony had been kind. She

hadn't wanted to hear that it took courage to stick her neck out, that

she'd shown real initiative but that she'd fallen into the trap of

getting carried away by coincidence. It would have been easier if he'd

been dismissive or even patronizing, but the fellow-feeling in his

compassion was too obvious for her to hide her crushing disappointment

in anger. He'd even told a couple of stories against himself about

mistaken conclusions he'd leapt to in his early efforts at profiling.





It was a generosity of spirit that Shaz had no equipment to deal with.





The only, and accidental, child of a couple so devoted to each other

that the emotional needs of their daughter barely impinged, she had

learned to get by without expectations of tenderness or indulgence.





She'd been told off for misbehaving, praised absent-mindedly for

success, but mostly, she'd been ignored. Her driven ambition had its

roots in a childhood where she'd worked desperately hard to win the

recognition from her parents that she craved. Instead, her teachers had

offered approval, and their off-handed professional assessments had been

the only generosity she'd learned to feel at ease with. Now, genuine

personal kindness left her baffled and uncomfortable. She could handle

Carol Jordan's businesslike appreciation of her work, but Tony's

sympathy unsettled her and fired her to do something that would render

it redundant.





The morning after the debacle, she endured the chaffing of her

colleagues, even managing to join in their banter rather than fixing

them with her chill blue stare and stripping their self-confidence to

the bone. Underneath the affable surface, though, her mind was

churning, thoughts revolving in an attempt to find a way forward that

would show she was right.





Trawling the missing persons records in a bid to find other cases that

fit the pattern was out of the question. Shaz knew from her days on the

beat that somewhere in the region of a quarter of a million people went

missing every year, nearly a hundred thousand of them under eighteen.





Many of them simply walked away from the pressures of jobs they hated

and families who offered them nothing. Others ran from lives grown

intolerable. Some were seduced by promises of streets paved with gold.





And a few were





IIQ





snatched unwilling from their familiar worlds and plunged into hell. But

it was almost impossible to tell which category individuals fell into by

a swift scrutiny of the report summary. Even if she could have

persuaded her doubting colleagues to join the search, to unearth other

possible victims of Shaz's serial killer would take far more resources

than they had available.





When Tony announced that the afternoon would be devoted to private

study, Shaz felt the itch of her impatience ease. Now she could at

least do something. Rejecting Simon's suggestion of a pub lunch, she

made straight for the city's biggest bookshop. Minutes later, she was

standing by the till with a copy of Jack on the Box: the Unauthorized

Version by Tosh Barnes, a Fleet Street columnist known for his vitriolic

pen, and Lionheart: the True Story of a Hero by Micky Morgan, an updated

version of the account she'd first written shortly after their marriage.





Tony had suggested that even if Shaz was right about the link, the

killer would be more likely to be one of Vance's entourage than the man

himself. The books might help either to eliminate him or to provide

corroborative support for her theory.





A short bus ride and she was home. Popping the top on a can of Diet

Coke, she sat down at her desk and plunged straight into his wife's

adoring take on Jacko Vance's brilliant career. Great athlete, selfless

hero, indomitable fighter, peerless broadcaster, tireless charity worker

and sublime husband. As she forced herself through the hagiography,

Shaz started to think it might actually be a pleasure to demolish so

revoltingly perfect a figure. If her first assumption was right, he

didn't so much have feet of clay as an entirely false facade.





It was a relief to reach the end, even though that meant facing the

question she'd been pushing to the back of her mind. It was the classic

misgiving of serial killer inquiries: how could the wife not know? Even

leading such busy lives independent of each other, how could Micky

Morgan share her bed and her existence with an abductor and murderer of

adolescent girls and not sense something in his head was twisted out of

true? And if she knew, or even suspected, how could she sit in front of

the cameras day after day interviewing life's victims and victors

without a flicker of anything other than professional compassion and

composure?





It was a question that had no answer. Unless Tony had been right and it

wasn't Jacko himself but a fan or a team member.





Suppressing these misgivings, Shaz turned to Jack on the Box which

proved to be merely an irreverent version of the same myth. Only the

anecdotes were different, revealing nothing more sinister than that when

he was wearing his professional hat, Jacko Vance was a perfectionist

with a corrosive line in invective that could strip even TV's hardest

cases of their protective armour. It was hardly a signpost to a

homicidal maniac.





But for someone searching for elements that would fit the identikit

notion of a serial killer, there were hints and clues that suggested she

might not be completely deluded. There were certainly more factors than

the average person would exhibit and, in her book, that kept Jacko Vance

in the prime suspect slot thus far. It might well be someone else

around him, but so far the research she had done had provided nothing to

contradict her original theory.





Shaz had made notes as she worked her way through both books. At the

end of her initial research, she booted up the laptop and opened a file

she'd developed earlier in the profiling course. Headed Organized

Offender Checklist, it was exactly what it said: a list of potential

indicators to reveal to an investigator whether a suspect was a serious

contender. She made a copy of the file; then, using her notes for

guidance, occasionally referring back to the books, Shaz worked her way

down the inventory. When she'd finished, she almost purred with

satisfaction. She wasn't crazy after all. This was something Tony Hill

wouldn't be able to ignore when it formed Part One of the new dossier

she planned to present him with. She printed it out and smiled in

satisfaction as she double-checked it.





Shaz was particularly pleased with the concluding paragraph. Concise,

to the point, but telling the readers who knew what to look for all they

needed to know, she thought. She wished she could get her hands on the

newspaper cuttings about Vance and Micky Morgan, particularly the

tabloids and the gossip columns. But to put in a formal request to any

of the newspaper libraries would set too many alarm bells ringing. On a

story this big, she couldn't even dare trust a personal contact.





She considered whether to present Tony with this fresh analysis. In her

heart, she knew there wasn't enough to change his mind. But someone was

killing young girls and on the balance of probabilities, given how long

it had been going on and how many





indicators lurked in his background, she reckoned Jacko Vance was her

man. Somewhere, there was something that would expose his weakness, and

she was going to find it.





The desk sergeant tipped the second spoonful of sugar into his mug of

black tea and stirred it languidly, staring at the sluggish whirlpool it

produced as if willing it to do something interesting enough to divert

him from the pile of paperwork stacked beside him on the desk. The

swirling slowed then stilled. Nothing else happened. With a sigh that

started in the pit of his stomach, he picked up the first file and

opened it.





The reprieve came two pages into the report. His hand shot out to the

phone as if it was attached by elastic suddenly released. "Glossop

Police, Sergeant Stone," he said cheerfully.





The voice on the phone was staccato with nerves, control barely in

place. It was a woman, not young, not old, Peter Stone registered

automatically as he pulled a pile of scrap paper towards him. "It's my

daughter," the woman said. "Donna. She's not come home. She's only

fourteen. She never went to her friend's. I don't know where she is.





Help me! You've got to help me!" The pitch rose to a frightened

squeak.





"I understand how upsetting this is for you," Stone said stolidly.





Himself a father of daughters, he refused to allow his imagination to

run riot over the possible disasters that could befall them. Otherwise

he'd never have slept again. "I'll need a few details so we can set

about being of some assistance." His formality was deliberate, a

calculated attempt to slow things down and inst il calmness in his

frantic caller. "Your name is ... ?"





"Doyle. Pauline Doyle. My daughter's Donna. Donna Theresa Doyle. We

live up Corunna Street. Number 15 Corunna Street. Just the two of us.





Her dad's dead, see? He took a brain haemorrhage three years ago,

dropped down dead, just like that. What's happened to my Donna?" Tears

shook her voice. Stone could hear sniffs and sobs despite her best

efforts to stay coherent.





"What I'm going to do, Mrs. Doyle, I'm going to send somebody round to

take a statement from you. Meantime, can you just tell me how long

Donna's been missing?"





"I don't know," Pauline Doyle wailed. "She left the house this morning

to go to school and said she was going for her tea to her pal Dawn's

house. They had some science project they were working on together.





When she wasn't home by ten, I rang Dawn's mum and she told me Donna

hadn't been there and Dawn said she wasn't in school all day."





Stone glanced at the clock. Quarter past eleven. That meant the girl

had been somewhere other than where she was supposed to be for the best

part of fifteen hours. Not officially time to worry yet, but a dozen

years in the Job had given him an instinct for the significant. "You

hadn't had words, had you?" he asked gently.





"No-o-o-o," Mrs. Doyle wept. She hiccupped and Stone could hear her

breathe deeply to calm her voice. "She's all I've got," she said, her

voice soft and piteous.





"There could be a simple explanation. It's not uncommon with young

girls, going missing overnight. Now, I want you to put the kettle on

and brew a pot of tea, because there'll be a couple of officers with you

within ten minutes, OK?"





"Thank you." Forlorn, Pauline Doyle replaced the phone and stared

bleakly at the photograph on top of the television set. Donna smiled

back at her, a flirtatious, knowing smile that said she was nudging the

borderline between child and woman. Her mother stuffed her hand between

her teeth to avoid crying out, then stumbled to her feet and went

through to the fluorescent brilliance of the kitchen.





At that point, Donna Doyle had been alive and well and slightly drunk.





Once the decision had been taken, all that remained were details. First,

the official proposal, arranged for maximum effect during the annual

fund-raising telethon that garnered millions for children's charities.





Jacko went down on one knee in front of eight million viewers and asked

Micky to marry him. She looked suitably stunned, then moved. With

tears in her eyes, she said yes. Like every other aspect of their

marriage, there was nothing about the whole process that couldn't be

screened before the watershed.





The wedding took place in a register office, of course, but that was no

reason not to splurge on a party that would keep the gossip column

inches flowing for days. Jacko's agent and Betsy were the witnesses,

each acting as a kind of unofficial minder to make sure neither member

of the wedding drank champagne to the destruction of discretion. Then,

afterwards, the honeymoon. A private island in the Seychelles, Betsy

and Micky in one cottage, Jacko in the other. On several occasions they

spotted him on the beach, with a different woman each time, but no one

apart from Jacko himself ever joined them for a meal and they were never

introduced to any of his partners.





On the last night, the three had dinner together under the Indian Ocean

moon. "Your friends gone, then?" Betsy had asked, emboldened by the

fifth glass of champagne.





"Not friends," Jacko said carefully. His mouth twisted in a strange

smile. "Not even personal assistants, I'm afraid. I don't sleep with

friends. Sex is something I keep in the realm of transactions. After

the accident, after Jillie, I told myself I was never ever going to put

myself in a position where anybody could take anything that mattered

from me again."





"That's sad," Micky said. "You lose a lot by not being prepared to take

risks."





His eyes seemed to glaze over, like a tinted-glass limo window rising to

obscure its inhabitant. It was a look she was certain was never seen by

his public, nor even the terminally ill and permanently damaged that he

gave his time and energy to reassure so potently. If the powers that be

had ever seen that darkness behind his eyes, they'd have made sure he

never came within a hundred miles of the sick and dying. All the world

got was the charm. Come to that, it was mostly all she ever got. But

either he willingly let her see more, or else he wasn't aware that she

knew him so well. Even Betsy told her she was exaggerating when she

spoke of the darkness battened down inside her husband. Only Micky knew

she wasn't.





Jacko looked unsmiling into his wife's eyes and said, "I take plenty of

risks, Micky. I just minimize the possibility of damage. Take this

marriage. It's a risk, but I wouldn't have taken it unless I'd been

certain it was safer for me because you have a lot more to lose than I

do if it's ever exposed as a sham."





"Maybe so," Micky acknowledged with a tip of her glass. "But I think

it's sad to cut yourself off from the possibility of love, which is what

you've done ever since you split with Jillie and started playing games

with me."





"This isn't a game," Jacko said, his face closed and intense. "But if

you're worried about me lacking nourishment, don't be. I take

responsibility for my own needs. And I promise my solutions will never

embarrass you. I am the king of deniability." He put his left hand

over his heart and smiled solemnly.





The words had always haunted Micky, though he had never given her reason

to throw them in his face. But sometimes, when she saw expressions

cross his eyes that reminded her of the first time she'd seen his

contained fury in that sterile hospital room, she wondered what exactly

there might be lurking in Jacko's secret world that would require

denial. Murder, however, would never have made it to the list.





The trouble with working alone was that you just couldn't cover the

ground, Shaz had realized after a fitful night's sleep. There weren't

enough hours in the day, she didn't have the authority to make full

background inquiries, she had no access to the information network of

the bobbies who worked the patches where Jacko Vance had grown up or

lived since. There was no one to gossip with. If she was going to make

any progress worth speaking of, there was only one possible route to go.





She'd have to stir things up. And that meant calling in more favours.





She picked up the phone and rang Chris Devine's number. The answering

machine picked up on the third ring. It was a relief not to have to

explain the whole seemingly insane enterprise to Chris. When she heard

the beep, she said, "Chris? It's Shaz. Thanks for your help the other

day. It was so useful, I need another favour. Any chance you could get

me a home number for Jacko Vance? I'll be at home all evening. You're a

star, thanks."





"Hang on," Chris's voice cut across hers. Shaz jumped and almost

knocked her coffee cup to the floor. "Hello?" she said. "Chris?"





"I was in the shower. What are you up to?" Chris's voice was more

affectionate than Shaz reckoned she deserved.





"I want to set up an interview with Jacko Vance, and I haven't got a

number for him."





"Is there some problem with official channels, doll?"





Shaz cleared her throat. "It's not exactly an official inquiry."





"You're going to have to do better than that. Has this got something to

do with the half-dozen trees I had to murder to do the last favour you

asked for?"





"Sort of. The exercise I told you about? Well, it's thrown up what

looks like a genuine cluster. I think there's a real serial killer out

there doing teenage girls. And it's connected to Jacko Vance."





"Jacko Vance? The Jacko Vance? Vance's Visits Jacko Vance? What's he

got to do with a serial killer?"





That's what I'm trying to find out. Only we're not supposed to be doing

this for real yet, so nobody's prepared to take any action unless I can

come up with something more concrete."





"Hang on a minute, doll. Back up a bit, to where you said it's

connected to Jacko. How d'you mean, "connected"?" Chris was starting

to sound worried, Shaz thought. Time for a bit of back pedalling Time

also to adopt the less dramatic suggestion of her colleagues.





"It could be something and nothing. Only, this cluster I spotted: he

was doing a personal appearance in each of the girls' home towns a

couple of days before they went walkabout. It's an odd coincidence, and

I'm thinking maybe it's someone in his entourage





or some psycho fan of his who has it in for girls who maybe come on too

strong to Jacko or something."





"So, let me get this right. You want to front up Jacko Vance to see if

he's noticed any revolving-eyed maniacs hanging around his gigs? And

you want to do this unofficial?" Chris's voice mixed incredulity and

concern.





"That's about the size of it, yeah."





"You're off your head, Bowman."





"I thought that was part of my charm."





"King hell, doll, charm won't get

you out of the shit if you put a foot wrong on this one."





"Tell me something I don't know. Are you going to help me or not?"





There was a long silence. Shaz let it stretch, even though her nerves

were stretching to breaking point with it. Finally, Chris caved in. "If

I don't, you'll just go somewhere else, won't you?"





"I have to, Chris. If I'm right, somebody's killing kids. I can't

ignore that."





"It's if you're wrong I'm worried about, doll. You want me to come with

you, give you a bit of back-up, make it look more official?"





It was tempting. "I don't think so," Shaz said slowly. "If I end up

going down in flames, I don't want to take you with me. But there is

something you could do."





Chris groaned. "Not if it involves a library."





"You could cover my back. I'll probably need to give a ring-back

number. People like him, they don't take anything on trust. Only, we

can't take phone calls on the course because we're always in lectures or

group sessions or whatever. If I could use your office number, at least

he's going to be getting a police phone if he calls back to check me

out."





"You got it," Chris sighed. "Give me five minutes."





Shaz endured the wait stoically. There were times when she envied

smokers, though not enough to start. She stared at the second hand of

her watch, tightening her lips as it swept into the sixth minute. When

the phone rang, she grabbed it before the end of the first peal.





"Got a pen?" Chris said.





"Yeah."





"Here you go, then." She recited the supposedly secret unlisted





number she'd wheedled out of the desk officer at Notting Hill police

station. "You didn't get it from me."





"Thanks, Chris. I owe you."





"More than you'll ever pay, unfortunately," Chris said ruefully. "Hang

loose, doll. Talk to you soon."





"I'll keep you posted. Bye." Shaz contemplated the piece of paper with

a quiet smile of triumph. Here I come, ready or not, she thought,

reaching for the phone again. Half past eight wasn't too early to call.





The number rang out a couple of times, then an automated voice told

Shaz, "Your call is being diverted." A series of clicks, a hollow

sound, then the distinctive warble of a mobile phone ringing. "Hello?"





The answering voice was instantly recognizable. Shaz found it

disconcerting to have what normally came from the TV issuing from her

phone, especially since it wasn't the voice she expected.





"Ms. Morgan?" she asked tentatively.





"Speaking. Who is this?"





"I'm Detective Constable Sharon Bowman of the Metropolitan Police. I'm

sorry to trouble you, but I need to speak to your husband."





"I'm afraid he's not at home just now. Nor am I. You've actually come

through on the wrong line. This is my personal line. His is a

different number."





Shaz felt a blush creeping up her neck. "I'm sorry to have disturbed

you."





"No problem. Is it something I can help you with, officer?"





"I don't think so, Ms. Morgan. Unless you could possibly give me a

number where I can reach him?"





Micky hesitated. "I'd rather not, if you don't mind. I could pass a

message on, if that would do?"





It would have to, Shaz thought grimly. The rich really did do things

differently. Just as well she'd already made the arrangement with

Chris. "I think he might have some background information relating to

an inquiry we're pursuing. I realize he's a very busy man, but I can

meet him any time tomorrow, wherever and whenever suits him. Now, I'm

going to be out of the office for the rest of the day, so if he could

ring this number ... " she dictated Chris's direct line. "And ask to

speak to Sergeant Devine. He can make the arrangements with her."





Micky read the number back to her. "That right? Tomorrow?





Fine, DC Bowman, I'll pass the message on to him."





"Sorry to have intruded," Shaz said gruffly.





The familiar chuckle came down the line. "Think nothing of it. I'm

always delighted to help the police. But you'll know that, if you ever

see the programme."





It was so obviously an opening that Shaz couldn't resist. "It's a

terrific show. I watch you whenever I can."





"Flattery will always get your messages delivered," Micky said, her

voice as seductive as it always managed to be at noon.





"I look forward to hearing from Mr. Vance," Shaz said. She'd never

meant anything more in her life.





Pauline Doyle stared at the empty frame on top of the television. The

officers who had visited her the night of Donna's disappearance had

taken the photograph to have some copies made. They'd seemed concerned

about Donna, asking a lot of questions about her friends and her school,

whether she had a boyfriend, what she liked to do on a weekend. When

they'd eventually left with the photo and a description of Donna, she

felt they'd helped her keep hysteria at bay. All her instincts were to

run through the midnight streets crying her daughter's name, but the

composed responses of the two uniformed officers who had filled her

kitchen had soothed her, made her understand this was not the time to

act on irrational impulses. "Best stop here," the older man had said.





"If she tries to phone home, you don't want her missing you. Leave it to

us to look for her. We're the experts, we know what we're about."





The woman who'd come the following morning had undermined those

reassurances. She'd persuaded Pauline to do a detailed audit of Donna's

possessions. When they'd established the absence of Donna's favourite

dance outfit a short black Lycra skirt, a body-hugging black-and-white

striped T-shirt with a scoop neck and black patent leather Doc Marten's

the detective had visibly relaxed. Pauline understood why. In the eyes

of the police, the missing clothes meant just another teenage runaway.





They could relax now, stop worrying about their earlier assumption that

they might well be looking for a body.





How could she explain in a way that they'd understand? How could she

make them see that Donna had neither need nor reason to run away? She

hadn't fallen out with Pauline. Quite the opposite. They were close,

closer than most women managed to stay to their teenage daughters.





Bernard's death had driven them to each other for comfort and they'd

continued to share their confidences. Pauline clenched her eyes shut

and sent a fierce supplication to the Virgin she'd lost faith in years

before. The police wouldn't listen; what harm could it do to pray?





The dawn came up on her left-hand side to road noise and the sound of

her own voice. All the way down the M1, Shaz practised the interview.





She'd always envied lawyers the comfort of only asking questions to

which they knew the answers. To face a professional without

role-playing and exploring every possible response would have been

madness, so she drove on automatic pilot, rehearsing her questions and

the imagined replies. By the time she arrived in West London, she was

as ready as she'd ever be. Either he'd let something slip, which she

doubted he'd be amateur enough to do, or else she'd panic him into some

subsequent action that would confirm everything she'd worked out for

herself. Or she might be wrong and the others right and he might simply

point her in the direction of a fanatical devotee that he'd spotted with

the putative victims. It would be an anti-climax, but one she could

live with if it saved lives and put a killer behind bars.





That she might be putting herself at risk never seriously occurred to

her in spite of Chris Devine's warnings. At twenty-four, Shaz had no

intimations of mortality. Even three years in the police, with the

occasional assaults and regular dangers, hadn't dented her sense of

invincibility. Besides, people who lived in Holland Park mansions

didn't attack police officers. Especially not when it was their wife

who'd made the appointment.





Early as usual, Shaz ignored the instructions to park on their drive

that had been passed on to her. Instead, she found a meter in Netting

Hill and walked down into Holland Park, strolling down the street where

they lived. Carefully counting the numbers, Shaz identified the house

belonging to Jacko and Micky. It was hard to believe that somewhere so

huge in the heart of Central London was still dedicated to only one

household, but Shaz knew from her background reading that this was no

mansion split into flats. It was all for Jacko and Micky, the only

live-in staff, Micky's long-standing personal assistant Betsy Thorne.





Gobsmacking, Shaz thought as she passed the wedding cake white house

with its flawless facade. She couldn't see much of the garden, shielded

from the world by tall, clipped variegated laurel hedges, but the

section beyond the electronic gates appeared to be as immaculate as an

exhibit at the Chelsea Flower Show. Shaz felt a momentary doubt in the

pit of her stomach. How could she suspect the tenant of such a jewel of

the hideous crimes her imagination had constructed? People like this

didn't do things like that, did they?





Biting her lip in anger at her lack of self-belief, Shaz turned on her

heel and marched back to her car, determination building with the very

rhythm of her stride. He was a criminal and when she'd finished with

him, the whole world would know it. It took her less than five minutes

to drive back to the house and turn into the gateway. She wound down

her window and pressed the speaker box. "DC Bowman to see Mr. Vance,"

she said firmly.





The gates swung open with a low electric hum and Shaz advanced into what

she couldn't help thinking of as enemy territory. Not sure where to

leave her car, she opted to avoid blocking the double garage and

followed the drive round to the other side of the house, past a Range

Rover parked by the front steps, and stopped alongside a silver Mercedes

convertible. She turned off the engine and sat for a moment, gathering

her energies and focusing on her objective. "Just do it," she finally

said, her voice low and tough.





She ran up the steps to the front door and pushed the bell. Almost

instantaneously, the door swung open and Micky Morgan's face smiled down

at her, familiar as family. "Detective Constable Bowman," she said,

stepping back and waving Shaz inside. "Come in. I was just leaving."





Micky extended an arm to one side, indicating a middle-aged woman with

grey-streaked hair pulled loosely back in a heavy plait. "This is Betsy

Thorne, my PA. We're off to catch Le Shuttle."





"An overnight break in Le Touquet," Betsy amplified.





"Lots of seafood and a flutter in the casino," Micky added, reaching

over to take a leather holdall from Betsy. "Jacko's expecting you. He's

just finishing a phone call. If you take that first door on the left,

he'll be with you in a minute."





Shaz finally managed to get a word in. "Thanks," she said. Micky and

Betsy hovered on the doorstep, till Shaz realized they weren't going to

close the door until they were certain she was in the correct place.





With an awkward smile, Shaz nodded and walked through the open door

Micky had indicated. Only when she'd disappeared from sight did she

hear the front door closing. Moving to the window, she saw the women

climb into the Range Rover.





"DC Bowman?"





Shaz whirled around. She hadn't heard anyone enter. Across the room,

smaller in life than he appeared on TV, Jacko Vance smiled. Fuelled by

her imagination, Shaz saw the grin of the panther just before its prey

becomes a carcass. She wondered if she was face to face with her first

serial killer. If so, she hoped he didn't realize he was seeing

Nemesis.





Her eyes were extraordinary. From behind, she'd looked so average.





Brown hair brushing the collar of a tailored dark navy blazer over blue

jeans and tan deck shoes. Nothing you'd glance at twice in a crowded

bar. But when he startled her into turning round, the blaze of her blue

eyes converted her into an entirely different creature. Vance felt a

tingle of apprehension coupled with a strange sense of satisfaction.





Whatever she was after, this woman wasn't a nobody. She was an

adversary. "Sorry to keep you waiting," he said, his voice the familiar

TV caress.





"I was early," she said neutrally.





Vance walked towards her, stopping when there was about six feet between

them. "Have a seat, officer," he said, indicating the sofa behind her.





"Thanks," Shaz said, ignoring his instruction and moving instead to the

very armchair he'd planned to occupy. He'd chosen it because the seat

was higher and the light was behind it. He'd intended to place her at a

disadvantage, but she'd turned the tables. Irritation stung him like an

insect bite and rather than sitting down himself, he moved over to the

fireplace and leaned against the ornately carved over mantel He stared

across at her, his silence demanding that she open the bidding.





"I appreciate you making the time to see me," she said after a long

moment. "I realize how busy you are."





"You didn't leave me much option. Besides, I'm always happy to be of

assistance to the police. Your Deputy Commissioner could fill you in on

the details of the number of times I've helped police charities." The

smile never left his voice but didn't make it to his eyes.





The blue stare didn't blink. "I'm sure he could, sir."





"Which reminds me. Your warrant card?" Vance didn't move, forcing Shaz

to get up and cross the room once she'd taken out the wallet that

contained her police credentials. "I can't believe we'd be so

careless," Vance said conversationally as she approached. "Letting a

stranger across the door without checking she was who she claimed to

be." He gave her Metropolitan Police warrant card a perfunctory glance.





"There's another one, isn't there?"





"I'm sorry? This is the only card Metropolitan Police officers are

issued with. It's our ID," Shaz said, face giving nothing away of the

alarm bells ringing in her head, telling her he knew too much and she

should clear out while the going was good.





Vance's lips seemed to shrink as his smile became more vulpine. Time to

show her who held the cards, he decided. "But you're not with the Met

any longer, are you, DC Bowman? You see, you're not the only one who's

done their homework. You have done your homework?"





"I am still an officer of the Metropolitan Police," Shaz said firmly.





"Anyone who has told you different is mistaken, sir."





He pounced. "But you're not based in the Met's area, are you? You're

on attachment to a special unit. Why don't you show me your current ID

so that I know you are who you say you are and we can get down to

business?" Careful, he told himself, don't get carried away just

because you're so much smarter than her. You don't know yet what she's

doing here. He shrugged winningly, his eyebrows lifting. "I don't mean

to be difficult, but a man in my position can't be too careful."





Shaz looked him up and down, her face a mask. "That's very true," she

said, producing her National Profiling Task Force ID, complete with

photograph. He reached out for it, but she moved it out of his grasp.





"I've not seen one of those before," he said chattily, hiding his

frustration at not being able to glimpse more than a logo and the word

'profiling', which had leapt out like a burning brand. "The profiling

task force we've all read so much about, eh? Once you're actually up

and running, you should get one of your experienced officers to go on my

wife's programme, tell the people what's being done to protect them."





Now she'd know he knew she was an absolute beginner.





"That wouldn't be my decision, sir." Shaz deliberately turned her back

on him and walked back to the chair. "Now, if we could get down to

business?"





"Of course." He spread his left arm in an expansive gesture without

making a move towards a chair. "I'm at your disposal, DC Bowman.





Perhaps we could start with you telling me exactly what this is all

about."





"We've reopened the cases of a group of missing teenage girls," Shaz

said, opening the folder she was carrying. "Initially, we have

identified seven cases with strong similarities. The cases cover a

period of six years, and we will be expanding our inquiries to see

whether there are other cases with common features that we haven't

pinpointed yet."





"I don't quite see what I ... " Vance frowned convincingly. "Teenage

girls?"





"Fourteen- and fifteen-year-olds," Shaz said firmly. "I can't go into

the precise details that have linked these cases, but we have grounds

for believing they may be connected."





"You mean, they're not just run-of-the-mill runaways?" he asked,

sounding perplexed.





"We have reason to believe their disappearances were planned by a third

party," Shaz said cautiously, never shifting her eyes from his face. The

intensity of her gaze made him uncomfortable. He wanted to edge away

from her stare, to fidget his way out of her eye line But he forced

himself to keep his pose casual.





"Kidnapped, is that what you're saying?"





Her eyebrows and a slight movement of her head indicated a shrug. "I'm

not in a position to release any more information," she said with a

sudden smile.





"Fine, but you're still not making much sense. What has a bunch of

missing teenagers got to do with me?" He made his voice sound a little

edgy. It wasn't hard to do; there was plenty of nervous tension buzzing

in his veins to draw on.





Shaz flipped open her folder and drew out a sheaf of photocopied

photographs. "In every case, a couple of days before the girls

disappeared, you'd made a public appearance or taken part in a charity

event in the towns where they lived. We have reason to believe that

each of the girls attended the occasion."





He could feel the red tide rising up his neck. He was powerless to stop

the flush of anger as it climbed into his face. It was an effort to

keep himself calm and his voice level. "Hundreds of people come to my

events," he said evenly, his voice a fraction husky to his ears.





"Statistically, some of them must go missing. All the time."





Shaz cocked her head, as if she'd also picked up on a change in his

tone. She looked like a hunting dog who's just had the faintest whiff

of what might possibly be a rabbit. "I know. I'm sorry we have to

bother you with this. It's just that my boss thinks there's an outside

possibility that either someone in your entourage or possibly someone

who's got an unhealthy interest in you might conceivably be involved in

the disappearance of those girls."





"You mean, you think I've got a stalker who's capturing my fans?" This

time, he found it wasn't hard to sound incredulous. As a cover story,

it was ridiculous. An imbecile could see that the person she was really

interested in wasn't some crazy, nor a member of his entourage. It was

him. He could tell by her eyes, obsessively fixed on him, recording his

every move, noticing the faint sheen of sweat he could feel on his

forehead. And her talk of a boss was just as evidently a bluff. She

was a lone wolf, like him. He could smell it on her.





Shaz nodded. "It could be. Transference, the psychologists call it.





Like John Hinckley. Remember him? The guy who shot Ronald Reagan

because he wanted Jodie Foster to take notice of him?" Her voice was

pleasant, friendly, carefully pitched so he wouldn't feel threatened. He

hated her for thinking so simple a technique would slip past him

unnoticed.





"This is bizarre," he said, pushing off from the mantelpiece and

striding to and fro on the hearth rug, a hand-knotted silk Bokhara that

he'd chosen himself. Staring down at the grey and cream intricacies

under his feet calmed him until he was able to meet the woman's intense

eyes again. "It's absurd. If it wasn't so appalling a suggestion, it

would be funny. And I still don't see what it has to do with me."





"It's simple, sir," Shaz said soothingly.





Feeling patronized, Vance stopped in his tracks and scowled. "What?" he

demanded, charm disintegrating by the second.





"All I want you to do is to look at some photographs and tell me if you

noticed the girls for any reason. Maybe they were particularly pushy

with you, and someone wanted to punish them. Maybe you noticed one of

your staff chatting them up. Or maybe you never spotted any of them.





Just a couple of minutes of your time, then





I'm out of here," Shaz coaxed. She leaned forward and spread the

photocopies over a kilim-covered footstool the size of a coffee table.





He moved towards her, transfixed by the photographs that she'd arranged

to face him. Only a fraction of his work, that was all she'd captured.





But every single smiling stare was one he'd destroyed.





Vance forced a laugh. "Seven faces out of thousands? Sorry, DC Bowman,

you've been wasting your time. I've never seen any of them before."





"Look again," she said. "Are you absolutely certain?" There was an

edge in her voice that hadn't been there before, sharp and excited. He

dragged his eyes away from the pale reflections of the living flesh he'd

punished and met Shaz Bowman's implacable eyes. She knew. She might

not have the proof yet, but he knew she knew now. He also knew she

wouldn't stop until she had destroyed him. It had come down to dog eat

dog, and she had no chance. Not handicapped by the law.





He shook his head, a sorrowful smile on his lips. "I'm positive. I've

never clapped eyes on any of them before."





Without even looking, Shaz pushed the middle picture closer to him. "You

made an appeal in a national tabloid for Tiffany Thompson to call her

parents," she said without inflexion.





"My God," he exclaimed, forcing his features into an expression of happy

astonishment. "Do you know, I'd completely forgotten about that? You're

right, of course, I see it now."





Her attention was all on his face as he spoke. In a swift movement, he

swung his prosthesis round in a short arc and smashed it violently into

the side of her head. Her eyes showed a momentary shock, then panic. As

she fell out of the chair, her forehead smacked into the footstool. By

the time she crashed to the floor, she was unconscious.





Vance wasted no time. He raced down to the cellar where he grabbed a

reel of hi-fi speaker wire and a pack of latex gloves. Within minutes,

Shaz was trussed like a hog-tied steer on the polished parquet. Then he

ran up to the top floor and opened his wardrobe, scrabbling around on

the floor until he found what he was looking for. Back downstairs, he

covered Shaz's head with the soft flannel bag that his new leather

briefcase had come in. Then he wrapped a few lengths of wire round her

neck, tight enough to be uncomfortable but not so that it would

constrict her breathing. He wanted her dead, but not yet. Not here,

and not accidentally.





As soon as he was sure that she wasn't going to be able to break free,

he picked up her shoulder bag and sat down with it on the sofa,

gathering the photocopies and the file they'd come from on the way.





Meticulously, he began to go through everything, starting with the file.





The abstracts of the police reports he skimmed over, knowing he would

have the opportunity to look at them in more detail later. When he came

to the analysis Shaz had presented to her colleagues, he took his time,

weighing and calculating how dangerous to him it might prove. Not very,

he decided. The photocopies of the newspaper clippings about his visits

to the places in question were meaningless; for every one connected to a

disappearance, he could produce twenty that weren't. Putting that aside,

he picked up the organized offender checklist. Reading her conclusion so

angered him that he jumped to his feet and gave the unconscious

detective a couple of savage kicks in the stomach. "Fuck do you know,

bitch?" he shouted angrily. He wished he could see her eyes now. They

wouldn't be judging him, they'd be begging him for mercy.





Furious, he stuffed the papers back in the file along with the

photocopies. He'd have to study them more carefully, but there wasn't

time now. He'd been right to nip this in the bud before anyone else

paid attention to this bitch's allegations. He turned to her roomy

shoulder bag and pulled out a spiral-bound notebook. A quick flick

through the pages revealed nothing of interest except Micky's phone

number and their address. Since he wasn't going to be able to deny

she'd been here, that had better stay. But he tore out a handful of

pages after the last entry, making it look as if someone had ripped out

details pertaining to a subsequent appointment, then replaced it in the

bag.





Next out was the microcassette recorder, the tape still turning. He

stopped the machine and removed the tape, placing it with the blank

sheets of paper on one side. He ignored the lan Rankin paperback and

pulled out a filofax. Under that day's date, the only entry read, "JV

9.30'. He considered adding another cryptic entry and settled for the

single letter T' underneath her appointment with him. Let them think

about that. Inside the front cover, he found what he was looking for.





"If found, return to S. Bowman, Flat 1,17 Hyde Park Hill, Headingley,

Leeds. REWARD ." His fingers groped around the bottom of the bag. No

keys.





Vance stuffed everything back into the shoulder bag, picked up the file

and crossed to Shaz. He patted her down until he found a bunch of keys

in her trouser pocket. Smiling, he went upstairs to his office and

found a padded envelope big enough for the file. He addressed it to his

Northumberland retreat, stamped it and sealed Shaz's research inside.





A quick glance at his watch told him it was barely half past ten. He

went through to his bedroom and changed into jeans, one of the few

short-sleeved T-shirts he possessed, and a denim jacket. He picked up a

holdall from the back of the fitted wardrobes that ran deep under the

eaves. He took out a Nike baseball cap that was attached to a

professional quality wig of collar-length salt-and-pepper hair and put

it on. The effect was remarkable. When he added a pair of aviator

glasses with clear lenses and a pair of foam pads to fill out his hollow

cheeks, the transformation was complete. The only giveaway was his

prosthetic arm. And Jacko had the perfect answer to that.





He let himself out of the house, careful to lock up behind himself, and

opened Shaz's car. He took a careful note of the seat position, then

climbed in and adjusted it to suit his longer legs. He spent a few

minutes familiarizing himself with the controls, making sure he was

going to be able to manage the stick shift and steer at the same time.





Then he set off, stopping only to drop the padded envelope in a pillar

box in Ladbroke Grove. As he hit the approach ramp to the M1 shortly

after eleven o'clock, he allowed himself a small, private smile. Shaz

Bowman was going to be very sorry she'd ever crossed him. But not for

long.





The first pain was a scream of cramp in her left leg, penetrating her

muzzy unconsciousness like a serrated knife across a knuckle. The

instinctive attempt at stretching and flexing the muscle triggered a

slash of agony around her wrists. It made no sense to a disorientated

mind that had started to throb like a thumb hit with a hammer. Shaz

forced her eyes open, but the blackness didn't go away. Then she

registered the damp material against her face. It was some sort of

hood, made of thick fabric with a soft nap. It covered her whole head,

fastening tightly round her throat, making it hard to swallow.





Gradually, she made sense of her position. She was lying on her side on

a hard surface, her hands fastened behind her back with some sort of

ligature that bit cruelly into the flesh of her wrists. Her feet were

also fastened at the ankle, and both sets of bonds were linked to allow

minimal movement. Anything adventurous like stretching her legs or

trying to shift her spot cost too much in pain. She had no idea how

small or how large her area of confinement was, nor any desire to

explore once she had experienced the torment of attempting to turn over.





She had no idea how long she'd been unconscious. The last thing she

could remember was Jacko Vance's laughing face looming over her, as if

he didn't have a care in the world, secure in the certainty that no one

would ever take this pipsqueak detective seriously. No, that wasn't

quite right. Something else tugged at her memory. Shaz tried the deep

breathing of relaxation techniques and tried to picture what she'd seen.





The memory stirred and took shape. Out on the edge of her peripheral

vision, his right arm rising, then swinging down savagely like a club.





That was the last thing she could remember.





With the memory came terror, sharper than any of her physical

afflictions. Nobody knew where she was except Chris, who wasn't

expecting to hear from her anyway. She hadn't told anyone else, not

even Simon. She hadn't been able to face their mockery, however

friendly. Now the fear of being laughed at was going to cost her her

life. Shaz was under no illusion about that. She'd asked Jacko Vance

questions that made him realize she knew he was a serial killer and he

hadn't panicked as she'd believed he would. Instead, he'd worked out

for himself that she was a maverick. That although her deductions were

a threat to him, he could win himself a stay of execution by getting rid

of her, the renegade cop in hot pursuit of a solo hunch. Removing Shaz

would, at worst, buy him time to cover his tracks or even leave the

country.





Shaz felt a wave of sweat drench her skin. There was no question about

it. She was going to die. The only question was how.





She'd been right. And being right was going to kill her.





Pauline Doyle was desperate. The police refused to regard Donna's

disappearance as anything other than a typical teenage runaway. "She'll

have gone to London, probably. There's no point in us looking for her

round here," one of the uniformed officers she'd mithered at the counter

of the police station had said in exasperation one night.





Pauline might shout from the rooftops that someone had stolen her

daughter, but the evidence of the missing outfit was more than enough to

convince overworked cops that Donna Doyle was just another teenager

bored with home and convinced the streets somewhere were paved with

gold. You only had to look at her photograph, that knowing smile, to

understand she was nothing like as innocent as her poor misguided mother

wanted to believe.





With the police showing no interest beyond a routine posting of Donna on

the missing list, Pauline was stymied. Not for her the passionate

television appeals for the missing daughter, not with the absence of

official backing. Even the local paper wasn't interested, though the

women's editor toyed with the idea of running a feature on teenage

runaways. But like the police, when she saw Donna's photograph, she

thought again. There was something about Donna that defied any attempt

to portray her as an innocent abroad, seduced by chaste dreams.





Something about the line of her mouth, the tilt of her chin said that

she had crossed the line. The women's editor reckoned Donna Doyle was

the sort of Lolita that would make most women want to put blinkers on

their husbands.





Her frustration spilling over into nightly storms of tears, Pauline

decided the time had come to take matters into her own hands. Her job

in the estate agency wasn't particularly well paid. It was enough to

feed and clothe her and Donna and to keep a roof over their heads, but

not much more than that. There was still a couple of thousand left over

from Bernard's insurance. Pauline had been saving that for when Donna

went off to university, knowing how tight things would be then.





But if Donna didn't come back, there would be no point in saving it for

university, Pauline reasoned. Better then to spend the money to try and

get her home and let higher education fend for itself. So Pauline took

Donna's photograph to the local print shop and had them make up

thousands of flyers with her daughter's image occupying the whole of one

side. The text on the reverse read, "HAVE YOU SEEN THIS GIRL? Donna

Doyle went missing on Thursday tenth October. She was last seen at

quarter past eight in the morning, on her way to Glossop Girls Grammar.





She was wearing school uniform of maroon skirt, maroon cardigan, white

open-necked blouse. Her shoes were black Kickers, and she had a black

anorak. She was carrying a black Nike backpack. If you saw her at any

time after that, please contact her mother, Pauline Doyle." It gave the

address in Corunna Street, and telephone numbers at home and the agency.





Pauline took a week off work and stuffed the leaflets through letter

boxes from dawn till dusk. She started in the town centre, thrusting

the reproductions of Donna's face at anyone who would take them, and

gradually worked her way out into suburban streets, not noticing the

steepness of the hills she climbed or the blisters that swelled inside

her shoes.





No one phoned.





While Shaz Bowman was lying on his hard floor in London, conscious only

of fear and pain, Jacko Vance was exploring her domain. He'd made good

time to Leeds, stopping only to fill up with petrol and visit the

disabled toilet at the motorway services. He'd wanted to use its

sanitary disposal unit to get rid of the tape he'd unravelled from

Shaz's microcassette. In the car park, he'd crushed the casing

underfoot, leaving the fragments to scatter in the blustery wind that

swept across the Midlands.





Finding Shaz's home had been made even easier by her recently purchased

A to Z, which conveniently had the street circled in blue biro. He

parked the car round the corner and forced himself to combat his

twitching nerves by strolling slowly down the street, empty except for a

couple of small boys playing cricket on the opposite pavement. He

turned in at the gate of number 17 and tried one of the two Yale keys in

the heavy Victorian front door. That he got it right first time

convinced him that the gods really were on his side.





He found himself in a gloomy hallway, lit only by two thin lancet

windows on either side of the door. Peering into the murk, he saw a

wide and graceful staircase rising ahead of him. There seemed to be one

ground-floor flat on either side. He chose the left-hand side, and was

proved right again. Breathing more easily now, convinced everything was

going his way, Vance let himself into the flat. He wasn't planning on

staying long, just enough to scout out the lie of the land, so he moved

swiftly through the rooms. As soon as he saw the living room, he

realized that Shaz could not possibly have chosen a flat better suited

to his purpose. The French windows led out on to a garden surrounded by

high walls, shaded by tall fruit trees. At the end, he could discern

the outlines of a wooden door in the brick wall.





Only one thing remained to be done. He slipped off his jacket and

unfastened his prosthesis. From the holdall, he took an object he'd

persuaded the props department to make for him a couple of years back,

supposedly as a practical joke. Using the fittings from one of his

previous artificial arms, an earlier model now discarded, they'd built a

plaster cast with disturbingly realistic fingertips protruding from the

end. Once it was fitted, especially with a jacket over it and a sling

holding it in place, it looked exactly like a broken arm. When he was

satisfied he'd arranged it correctly, Vance re-packed the holdall, took

a deep breath and decided it was time to go.





He let himself out of the French windows, pushing them to behind him,

then strode confidently down the gravel path to the gate. He could feel

the hair on his neck prickling under the wig, wondering if there were

eyes behind any of the windows at his back, eyes that would remember

what they'd seen once his handiwork was over and exposed to the public

gaze. In a bid for reassurance, he reminded himself that any

description they could come up with would sound nothing like Jacko

Vance.





He unbolted the back gate, convinced that no one would fasten it again

before he returned. He found himself in a narrow lane that ran between

two sets of walled back gardens and led out on to one of the main roads

that ran down towards the city centre. Walking to the station took the

best part of an hour, but he had barely ten minutes to wait for a London

train. He was back in Holland Park and restored to Jacko Vance by half

past seven.





Before he made his final preparations, he slammed a twelve-inch pizza

into the oven. It wasn't his usual idea of Saturday night dinner, but

the carbohydrate should stop his stomach turning somersaults. Tension

always hit him in the gut. Whenever the fever of anticipation had him

in its grasp, he'd have to endure cramps and clenches, knots and nausea.





He'd learned early on in his days as a live sports commentator that the

only way to stop the churning and grumbling was to stodge out in

advance. What worked for TV worked just as well for murder, he'd soon

discovered. Now, he always ate before he picked up his targets. And-of

course, he always ate with them before the act itself.





While the pizza was cooking, he loaded his Mercedes. Exertion was

easier on an empty stomach. Now everything was ready for Shaz Bowman's

final performance. All he had to do was get her on stage.





Donna Doyle was also alone. But, deranged by agony, she lacked the

luxury of introspection. The first time she'd woken from broken sleep,

she'd felt strong enough to explore her prison. Her fear was still

overwhelming, but it was no longer paralysing. Wherever she was, it was

dark as a grave and had the dank smell of the tiny coal cellar at home.





She used her good arm to help her gain a sense of where she was and what

was around her. She was, she realized, lying on a plastic-covered

mattress. Her fingers explored the edges and felt cold tiles. Not as

smooth as the ceramic ones in the bathroom at home, more like the glazed

terra cotta on Sarah Dyson's mum's conservatory steps.





The wall behind her was rough stone. She struggled to her feet,

realizing properly for the first time that her legs were shackled. She

bent and let her fingers trace the outline of an iron cuff round each

ankle. They were attached to a heavy chain. One-handed, it was

impossible to gauge how long it was. Four hesitant steps along one wall

brought her to a corner. She turned through ninety degrees and moved

on. Two steps and her shin crashed painfully against something solid.





It didn't take long both by touch and smell to identify it as a chemical

toilet. Pathetically grateful, Donna subsided on to it and emptied her

bladder.





That only reminded her of how thirsty she was. Hunger she wasn't too

sure about, but thirst was definitely a problem. She stood up and

carried on along the wall for another few feet before the chain round

her ankles brought her up short. The jerk sent a spasm of pain shooting

from her arm into her neck and head, and she gasped. Slowly, bent like

an old woman, she retraced her steps and moved past the other end of the

mattress, her hand brushing the wall.





Within a few feet, the questions of food and drink were answered. A

stiff metal tap produced a surge of icy water which she drank thirstily,

falling to her knees to get her head right underneath the flow. As she

did, she knocked something over beyond her. Her thirst slaked, she

groped blindly for whatever she'd bumped into. Probing fingers found

four boxes, all large and light. She shook them and heard the familiar

rustle of cornflakes.





An hour of investigation later and she was forced to realize that was

it. Four boxes of cornflakes she'd tested each one and as much freezing

water as she could drink. She'd tried running the water over her

shattered arm, but the pain had made her head reel. This was it. The

bastard had left her chained up like a dog. Left her to die?





She sat back on her heels and keened like a bereft mother.





But that had been a couple of endless days ago. Now, delirious with

pain, she moaned and gibbered, occasionally passing out, occasionally

drifting exhausted into tormented sleep. If she'd been able to

comprehend the state she was in, Donna wouldn't have wanted to live.





TAQ





The car stopped. Shaz slid irresistibly forward into the bulwark

separating the narrow confines of the boot from the back seat, crushing

her wrists and shoulders again. She tried to strain upwards to bang her

head on the lid in a desperate bid to attract someone's attention, but

all she achieved was a fresh wave of pain. She tried not to sob, afraid

that if mucus blocked her nose, she'd suffocate, unable to breathe

through the gag that Vance had tied over the hood before he'd rolled her

agonizingly across hard floors, over a carpeted area and down a short

flight of steps, then hoisted her into the boot of the car. She had

been horribly amazed at the strength and dexterity of this one-armed

man.





Shaz breathed as deeply as she could; too far and her chest expansion

made her stiff shoulder muscles protest. Only sheer willpower kept her

from gagging at the stench of her own urine. Let's see you get rid of

that from your boot carpet, she thought triumphantly; she couldn't do

anything to save her life, but she was still determined to seize every

opportunity to prevent Jacko Vance from walking away from his crimes. If

SOCO ever got this far, a piss-stained carpet would make their day.





Abruptly the muffled music stopped. Ever since they'd set off, he'd

listened to hits of the sixties. Shaz had forced herself to pay

attention and had counted the tracks. At an average of three minutes a

song, she reckoned they'd been driving for somewhere around three hours





of what had felt like motorway after the first twenty minutes or so.





That probably meant the north; heading west would have taken them on to

the motorway more quickly. Of course, it was possible that he could

have confused her by driving a circuit round the M25, orbiting London

until he'd laid a completely false trail. Shaz didn't think so; she

doubted whether he felt any need to





ISO





mislead her. She wasn't going to be alive to tell anyone, after all.





It was probably dark by now; she'd lain bound in the house for what felt

like several hours before Vance had returned to deal with her. If they

were in the depths of the country, there would be no one to see or hear

her. Somehow, she thought that was probably Vance's plan. He must have

taken his victims somewhere isolated to escape detection. She could

think of no reason why he'd treat her differently.





A car door closed with a soft thud and a faint click. Then a metallic

sound closer to hand and the soft hydraulic sigh of a boot opening.





"God, you stink," Vance said contemptuously, dragging her carelessly

forward.





"Listen," he continued, sounding closer. "I'm going to free your feet.





I'm going to cut them free. The knife is very, very sharp. Mostly I

use it to joint meat. If you take my meaning." His voice was almost a

whisper, his hot breath penetrating the hood next to her ear. Shaz felt

another ripple of nausea. "If you try to run, I'll gut you like a pig

on a butcher's hook. There's nowhere to run to, see? We're in the

middle of nowhere."





Shaz's ears told her different. To her surprise, there was the rumble

of traffic not far off, the underlying mutter of city life. If she had

half a chance, she'd take it.





She felt the cold blade of the knife briefly against the skin of her

ankle, then her feet were miraculously free. For a second, she thought

she could kick out then make a run for it. Then her circulation

reasserted itself and spasms of excruciating pins and needles squeezed a

moan from the dry mouth behind the unyielding gag. Before the cramp

could pass, Shaz felt herself hauled over the edge of the boot. She

collapsed in an uncoordinated heap before he slammed the boot shut and

yanked her to her feet. He half-dragged, half-carried her through a gap

or a gateway where she bashed her shoulder on the wall, then down a path

and up a couple of steps. Then he pushed her sharply and she crashed to

a carpeted floor, her legs still useless rubbery handicaps.





Even through the haze of disorientation and pain, the closing of the

door and the rattle of curtains being drawn sounded strangely familiar

to Shaz. A fresh dread seized her and she began to shiver

uncontrollably, losing control of her bladder for the second time in the

past hour.





"God, you're a disgusting bitch," Vance sneered. Again she felt herself

irresistibly hauled upwards. This time she was dumped unceremoniously

in a hard, upright chair. Before she could adjust to the fresh pain in

her shoulders and arms, she felt a new restraint being fastened to her

leg, attaching it to the chair like a broken limb to a splint. In a

desperate bid for freedom, she forced her other leg to kick out,

rejoicing in the jarring connection with Vance's body, exulting in his

cry of surprised pain.





The blow to her jaw snapped her head back with a crack that sent waves

of sick pain down her spine. "You fucking stupid cow," was all he said

before he grabbed her other leg and forced it against the chair while he

bound them tightly together.





She felt his legs between her knees. The warmth of his body was almost

the worst suffering she'd had to endure so far. He raised her arms

agonizingly and forced them back down over the back of the chair to hold

her irresistibly upright. Then the hood was pulled away from her flesh

and she heard the whisper of a razor-sharp blade through cloth. Blinking

at the sudden appalling brightness, Shaz's stomach was gripped with a

cold cramp as she discovered her worst fear was a reality. She was

sitting in her own living room, strapped to one of the four dining

chairs she'd bought only ten days before in Ikea.





Vance pressed his body against hers as he cut the hood away just above

the gag, leaving her able to see and hear properly, but incapable of any

noise other than a muffled grunt. He stepped back, giving her breast a

cruel tweak with his artificial hand as he went.





He stood staring at her, flicking the blade of the butcher's filleting

knife against the table edge. Shaz thought she had never seen a more

arrogant human being. His pose, his expression, everything reeked of

self-important righteousness. "You really fucked up my weekend," he

said witheringly. "Believe me, this is not how I planned to spend

Saturday night. Dressing up in fucking surgical greens and latex in

some shitty flat in Leeds is not my idea of a good time, bitch." He

shook his head pityingly. "You're going to pay, Detective Bowman.





You're going to pay for being a stupid little fuck."





He put the knife down and fumbled under his top. Shaz glimpsed a bum

bag as he unzipped it and took out a CD-ROM. Without another word he

walked out of the room. Shaz heard the familiar hum then clatter as

first her computer then her printer were switched on. Straining her

ears, she fancied she heard the clicking of the mouse and the sound of

keys being struck. Then, unmistakably,

the vibrating thrum of paper loading and printing.





When he returned, he carried a single sheet of paper which he held in

front of her face. She recognized the print-out of an illustrated

encyclopedia article. She didn't have to read the words to understand

the symbolism of the line drawing at the top of the page. "You know

what this is?" he demanded.





Shaz just stared at him, her eyes bloodshot but still arresting. She

was determined not to give in to him on any level.





"It's a teaching aid, student detective Bowman. It's the three wise

monkeys. See no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil. You should have

taken that as your class motto. You should have stayed away from me.





You should have kept your nose out of my business. You won't be doing

that again."





He let the paper flutter to the floor. Suddenly he lunged forward,

hands pushing her head back. Then his prosthetic thumb was over her

eyeball, pushing down and out, rending muscles, ripping the hollow globe

free from its moorings. The scream was only inside Shaz's head. But it

was loud enough to carry her over into blessed unconsciousness.





Jacko Vance studied his handiwork and saw that it was good. Because his

usual killings were fuelled by a completely different set of needs, he'd

never contemplated them in a purely aesthetic light before. But this

was a work of art, laden with symbolism. He wondered if anyone would be

smart enough to read the message he'd left and, having read it, to heed

it. Somehow, he doubted it.





He leaned forward and made a slight adjustment to the angle of the sheet

of paper in her lap. Then, satisfied, he allowed himself the luxury of

a smile. All he had to do now was to make sure she'd left no messages

behind. He began to search the flat methodically, inch by inch,

including the waste bins. He was used to the company of corpses, so the

presence of Shaz's remains caused him no stress. He was so relaxed as

he meticulously searched her kitchen that he actually caught himself

singing softly as he worked.





In the room she'd made her office, he found more than he'd bargained

for. A box of photocopies of newspapers, a pad of rough notes, files on

the hard disk of her laptop and back-ups on floppy disk, print-outs of

various drafts of the analysis he'd found earlier in the file she'd

brought to his house. What was even worse was that much of the

print-out didn't seem to have any matching files on the computer. There

were copies on floppy disk, but not on the hard disk. It was a

nightmare. When he spotted the modem, he almost panicked. The reason

the files weren't on her hard disk was that they were somewhere else,

presumably on some National Profiling Task Force computer. And there

was no way he could access that. His only hope was that Shaz Bowman had

been as paranoid with her computer files as she seemed to have been

about sharing her showdown with a colleague. Either way, there was

nothing he could do about it now. He'd get rid of every trace there was

here and just have to hope that nobody would go looking in her computer

files at work. If the Luddite cops he knew were anything to judge by,

it would never occur to them that she might have techie tendencies.





Besides, she wasn't supposed to be working cases, was she? Not according

to the contacts he'd so cautiously and entirely naturally exploited to

find out what he had about her before their meeting. There was no reason

why anyone should connect so bizarre a death to her profiling training.





But how was he going to deal with all this stuff? He couldn't take the

material with him in case a chance encounter with a traffic cop led to a

search of his car. Equally, he couldn't leave it behind, pointing a

giant finger of blame in his direction. He wasn't singing now.





He crouched in one corner of the office, thinking furiously. He

couldn't burn it. It would take too long and the smell would be bound

to attract the attention of her neighbours. The last thing he needed

was the fire brigade. He couldn't flush it down the toilet; it would

block the drains in no time at all unless he tore it into tiny

fragments, and that would take till dawn and beyond. He couldn't even

dig a hole in the garden and bury it, since the discovery of the bitch's

body would only be the starting point for a massively thorough

investigation, beginning with the immediate environs of the body.





In the end, the only solution he could come up with left no choice but

to take all the incriminating evidence with him. It was a scary

thought, but he kept telling himself that luck and the gods were with

him, that he'd been untouchable up to now because he took every

precaution humanly possible and left only a fraction of the risk to a

benevolent fate.





Vance loaded a couple of bin liners with the material and staggered out

to the car with them, every step an effort. He had been working on

ditching Detective Constable Shaz Bowman for something like fifteen or

sixteen hours, and he was running out of mental and physical energy. He

never used drugs when he was working; the false sense of power and

capability they induced were certain steps to fallibility and stupid

mistakes. But just this once, he wished he had a neatly folded paper

packet of cocaine in his pocket. A couple of lines of charlie and he'd

be flying through the tasks that remained instead of dragging his weary

body down this bloody gravel path through the arse end of Leeds.





With a small groan of relief, he dropped the second bin liner in the

boot. He paused momentarily, wrinkling his nose in disgust. Leaning

forward and sniffing, he confirmed his suspicion. The bitch had pissed

in his car, soaking the carpet. One more item to dispose of, he

thought, glad he had a ready solution to the problem. He stripped off

his surgical greens and gloves and pushed them into the spare-tyre well

then gently closed the lid with a soft snap of metal. "Goodbye, DC

Bowman," he muttered as he lowered himself wearily into the driving

seat. The clock on the dashboard told him it was nearly half past two.





Provided he wasn't stopped by the cops for being in possession of a

smart motor in the small hours of the morning, he'd be at his

destination by half past four. The only difficulty would be fighting

his instinct to hammer the pedal to the metal so he could put as much

distance between him and his achievement as possible. With one hand

sweating and the other as cool as the night air, he drove out of the

city and headed north.





He made it ten minutes ahead of schedule. The maintenance area of the

Royal Newcastle Infirmary was deserted, as he knew it would be until the

Sunday morning skeleton shift arrived at six. Vance backed his car into

a space in the service bay right next to the double doors that led

through to the incinerators that dealt with the hospital's surgical

waste. Often when he'd finished his voluntary work with the patients,

he'd come down here to have a brew and a gossip with the service staff.





They were proud to count a celebrity like Jacko Vance as a friend, and

they'd been more than honoured to provide him with his own smart card to

admit him to the maintenance sectors so he could come and go at will.





They'd even known him to come down on his own in the middle of the night

when there was no one else around and help them out by getting stuck in

to the incineration work himself, stoking the furnace with the sealed

bags of waste that came down from clinics, wards and operating theatres.





It never occurred to them that he added his own fuel to the flames.





That was one of the many reasons why Jacko Vance never feared discovery.





He was no Fred West with bodies underpinning the foundations of his

home. When he'd finished taking his pleasure, with his victims, they

disappeared forever in the fierce disintegrating heat of the RNI's

incinerator. For an appliance that routinely swallowed the waste of an

entire city hospital, two bin bags full of Shaz Bowman's research would

be a mere amuse bouche. He'd be in and out in twenty minutes. Then the

end would be in sight. He could fall into his favourite bed, the one at

the heart of his killing floor, ignore all the other distractions and

sleep the sleep of the just.





PART TWO





"Anybody know where Bowman is?" Paul Bishop asked impatiently, looking

at his watch for the fifth time in two minutes. Five blank faces stared

back at him.





"Gotta be dead, hasn't she?" Leon grinned. "Never late, not Shazza

baby."





"Ha ha, Jackson," Bishop said sarcastically. "Be a good boy and call

down to the front desk, see if they've taken a message from her."





Leon tipped his chair forward on to all four feet and slouched out of

the door, the wide shoulders of his sharply tapering jacket managing to

make his six feet of skinniness look challenging. Bishop started

drumming his fingers on the edge of the video remote control. If he

didn't get this session kicked off soon, he'd be running late. He had a

series of scene-of-crime videos to get through then a meeting with a

Home Office minister scheduled for lunch. Bloody Bowman. Why did she

have to be late today of all days? He'd give her till Jackson got back

and then he was forging ahead with the session. Too bad if she missed

something crucial.





Simon spoke softly to Kay. "Have you spoken to Shaz since Friday?"





Kay shook her head, her light brown hair falling like a curtain across

one cheek to create the image of a fieldmouse peering through winter

grasses. "I left a message when she didn't turn up for the curry, but

she didn't get back to me. I was half-expecting to see her at the

women's swim last night, but she wasn't there either. Mind, it wasn't a

firm arrangement or anything."





Before Simon could say anything more, Leon returned. "Not a dicky bird

from her," he announced. "She's not rung in sick or anything."





Bishop tutted. "Well, we'll just have to manage without her." He

briefed them on the morning's programme, then pressed '' on the

video.





The aftermath of uncontrolled violence and viciousness that unfolded

before them made little impact on Simon. Nor did he have much to

contribute to the discussion afterwards. He couldn't get Shaz's absence

out of his head. He'd gone round to her flat to pick her up on Saturday

night for their pre-curry drink, as they'd agreed. But when he'd rung

the bell, there had been no reply. He'd been early, admittedly, so,

thinking she might have been deafened by the shower or the hair dryer,

he'd walked back to the main road and found a phone box. He'd let her

number ring out until the call was automatically disconnected, then he'd

tried twice more. Unable to believe she'd stood him up without a word,

he'd walked back up the hill to the flat and tried the doorbell again.





He knew which ground-floor flat was Shaz's he'd given her a lift home

after they'd all been out for a drink one evening and, already wistfully

hoping he might pluck up the courage to ask her out, he'd lingered long

enough to see which set of lights came on. So, just by looking, he

could see that the curtains were closed across the deep bay of the

master bedroom at the front of the house although it wasn't long dark.





As far as he was concerned, that meant she'd been getting ready to go

out. Though not, it appeared, with him. He was about to give up and go

to the pub alone to drown his humiliation in Tetley's when he noticed

the narrow passage running down the side of the house. Not giving

himself time to wonder whether he was either justified or wise, he

slipped down the ginnel, through the wrought-iron gate and into the

gloomy darkness of the back garden.





He rounded the corner of the house and almost tripped over a short

flight of steps leading up from the garden to a pair of French windows.





"For fuck's sake," he muttered angrily, catching himself before he

pitched headlong. He peered through the glass, cupping his hand round

his eyes against the stray beams of light from the next-door house. He

could see dim shapes of furniture against a faint glow that appeared to

be coming from another room opening off the hall. But there was no sign

of life. Suddenly a light snapped on from the floor above, casting an

irregular rectangle of light right next to Simon.





Instantly aware that he must appear more like burglar than policeman to

any casual observer, he'd slid back into the darkness against the wall

and returned to the street, hoping he'd managed to avoid anyone's

attention. The last thing he needed were jibes from the local uniforms

about the Peeping Toms of the profiling squad. Baffled by Shaz's

apparent rebuff, he'd walked miserably down to the Sheesh Mahal to meet

Leon and Kay for the agreed meal. He wasn't in the mood to join in

their speculation that Shaz had had a better offer, concentrating

instead on getting as much Kingfisher lager down his throat as he could.





Now, on Monday morning, he was seriously worried. It was one thing

standing him up. Let's face it, she could probably do a lot better than

him without trying too hard. But to miss a training session was

completely out of character. Oblivious to Paul Bishop's words of

wisdom, Simon sat and fretted, a pair of frown lines dividing his dark

brows. As soon as the screech of chairs on floor announced the end of

the session, he went in search of Tony Hill.





He found the psychologist in the canteen, sitting at the table the

profiling squad had made their own. "Can you spare a minute, Tony?" he

asked, his dark intense expression almost a mirror image of his tutor's.





"Sure. Pull up a coffee and join me."





Simon looked uncertainly over his shoulder. "It's just that the

others'll be down any minute, and ... well, it's a bit ... you know, sort

of private."





Tony picked up his own coffee and the file he'd been reading. "We'll

grab one of the interview rooms for a minute."





Simon followed him down the corridor to the first witness interview room

without a red light showing. The air smelled of sweat, stale cigarettes

and, obscurely, burnt sugar. Tony straddled one of the chairs and

watched Simon pace for a moment before he leaned into one corner of the

room. "It's Shaz," Simon said. "I'm worried about her. She didn't turn

up this morning and she didn't phone in or anything."





Tony knew without being told there was more to it than that. It was his

job to find out what. "I agree, it's not like her. She's very

conscientious. But something could have come up unexpectedly. A family

problem, perhaps?"





One corner of Simon's mouth twitched downwards. "I suppose so," he

conceded reluctantly. "But she would have phoned somebody if that's

what it was. She's not just conscientious, she's obsessive. You know

that."





"Maybe she's had an accident."





Simon pounced. "Exactly. My point exactly. We should be worried about

her, shouldn't we?"





Tony shrugged. "If she has had an accident, we'll hear about it soon

enough. Either she'll call us or else someone else will."





Simon clenched his teeth. He was going to have to explain why it was

more urgent than that. "If she's had an accident, I don't think it was

this morning. We had a sort of date on Saturday night. Leon and Kay

and me and Shaz, we've taken to going out on a Saturday night for a

curry and a few bevvies. But I'd arranged to have a drink with Shaz

first, just the two of us. I was supposed to meet her at her flat."





Once he'd started, the words poured out of him. "When I turned up,

there was no sign of her. I thought she'd had second thoughts. Bottled

out, whatever. But now it's Monday, and she's not turned up. I think

something's happened to her, and whatever it is, it's not trivial. She

could have had an accident at home. She could have slipped in the

shower and hit her head. Or outside. She could be lying in hospital

somewhere and nobody knows who she is. Don't you think we should do

something about it? We're supposed to be a team, are we not?"





A dreadful premonition shimmered at the edge of Tony's mind. Simon was

right. Two days was too long for a woman like Shaz Bowman to drop out

of sight when that meant letting down a colleague and missing work. He

got to his feet. "Have you tried ringing her?" he asked.





"Loads of times. Her answering machine's not on, either. That's why I

thought maybe she'd had an accident in the house. You know? I thought,

she might've switched the machine off when she came in, and then

something happened and ... I don't know," he added impatiently. "This is

really embarrassing, you know? I feel like a teenager. Making a fuss

about nothing." He shrugged away from the wall and crossed to the door.





Tony put a hand on Simon's arm. "I think you're right. You've got a

policeman's instinct for when something doesn't smell right. It's one

of the reasons you're on this squad. Come on, let's go round to Shaz's

flat and see what we can see."





In the car, Simon leaned forward in his seat as if willing them forward.





Realizing any attempt at conversation would be futile,

Tony concentrated on following the young officer's terse directions.





They pulled up outside Shaz's flat and Simon was oh the pavement before

Tony could even turn off the engine. "The curtains are still drawn,"

Simon said urgently as soon as Tony joined him on the doorstep. "That's

her bedroom on the left. The curtains were drawn on Saturday night when

I was here." He pushed the bell marked





"Flat i: Bowman'. They could

both hear the irritating buzz from within.





"At least we know the bell's working," Tony said. He stepped back and

looked up at the imposing villa, its York stone blackened by a century

of the internal combustion engine.





"You can get round the back," Simon said, finally releasing the bell

push. Without waiting for a response, he was off down the ginnel. Tony

followed him, but not quickly enough. As he reached the corner, he

heard a wail like an agonized cat in the night. He emerged in time to

see Simon reel back from a pair of French windows like a man struck in

the face. The young policeman sank to his knees and emptied his guts on

the grass, groaning incoherently.





Shocked, Tony took a few hesitant steps forward. As he came level with

the steps leading up to the windows, the sight that had stripped Simon

Mcneill of his manhood turned his stomach to ice. Beyond thought,

beyond emotion, Tony stared through the glass at something that looked

more like a pastiche of a Bacon painting executed by a psychopath than

it did a human being. At first, it was more than he could grasp.





When realization came a moment later, he'd have sold his soul for that

previous incomprehension.





It was not the first mutilated corpse Tony had ever faced. But it was

the first time he'd had any personal connection to a victim.





Momentarily, he put a hand over his eyes, massaging his eyebrows with

thumb and forefinger. This wasn't the time to mourn. There were things

he could do for Shaz Bowman that no one else was capable of, and

crawling round on the grass like a wounded puppy wasn't one of them.





Taking a deep breath, he turned to Simon and said, "Call this in. Then

go round the front and secure the scene there."





Simon looked up at him beseechingly, his baffled pain impossible to

ignore. "That's Shaz?"





Tony nodded. "That's Shaz. Simon, do as I say. Call this in. Go

round the front. It's important. We need to get other officers here,

now. Do it." He waited until Simon stumbled to his feet and reeled

towards the ginnel like a drunk. Then he turned back and stared through

the glass at the ruination of Shaz Bowman. He longed to be closer, to

move round her body and take in the horrific details of what had been

done to her. But he knew too much about crime scene contamination even

to consider it.





He made do with what he could see. It would have been more than enough

for most people, but for Tony it was a tantalizing partial picture. The

first thing he had to do was to stop thinking of this shell as Shaz

Bowman. He must be detached, analytical and clear-headed if he was to

be any use at all to the investigating officers. Looking again at the

body in the chair, he found it wasn't so hard to distance himself from

memories of Shaz. The deformed freakish head that faced him bore so

little resemblance to anything human.





He could see dark holes where her startling eyes had last looked out at

him. Gouged out, he guessed, judging by what looked like threads and

strings trailing from the wounds. Blood had flowed and dried round the

black orifices, making the hideous mask of her face even more grotesque.





Her mouth looked like a mass of plastic in a dozen hues of purple and

pink.





There were no ears. Her hair stuck out in spikes above and behind where

the ears should have been, held in place by the dried blood that had

sprayed and flowed over them.





His eyes moved down to her lap. A sheet of paper was propped up against

her chest. Tony was too far away to make out the words, but he could

distinguish the line drawing easily. The three wise monkeys. A shiver

shook him from head to foot. It was too early to tell, but from what he

could see, there was no sign of any sexual assault. Coupled with the

deadly calculation of the three wise monkeys, Tony read the scene. This

was no sex killing. Shaz hadn't caught the chance attention of some

psychopathic stranger. This was an execution.





"You didn't do this for pleasure," he said softly to himself. "You

wanted to teach her a lesson. You wanted to teach all of us a lesson.





You're telling us you're better than us. You're showing off, thumbing

your nose at us because you're convinced we'll never find anything to

incriminate you. And you're telling us to keep our noses out of your

business. You're an arrogant bastard, aren't you?"





The scene before him told Tony things it would never reveal to a police

officer trained to look only for the physical clues. To the

psychologist, it revealed a mind that was incisive and decisive. This

was a cold-blooded killing, not a frenzied, sexually motivated attack.





To Tony, that suggested that the killer had identified Shaz Bowman as a

threat. Then he'd acted on it. Brutally, coldly and methodically. Even

before the SO COs arrived, Tony could have told them they would find no

significant material clues to the identity of this perpetrator. The

solution to this crime lay in the mind, not the forensic lab. "You're

good," Tony murmured. "But I'm going to be better."





When the sirens tore the silence into shreds and uniformed feet pounded

down the ginnel, Tony was still standing at the windows, memorizing the

scene, drinking in every detail so it would be there later when he

needed it. Then and only then he walked round to the front of the house

to offer what consolation he could to Simon.





"Hardly bloody urgent," the police surgeon grumbled, opening his bag and

pulling out a pair of latex gloves. "State she's in, an hour's neither

here nor there. Not like doctoring the living, is it? Bloody pager,

bane of my bloody life."





Tony resisted the impulse to hit the chubby doctor. "She was a police

officer," he said sharply.





The doctor flashed him a shrewd look. "We've not met, have we? You new

here?"





"Dr. Hill works for the Home Office," the local DI said. Tony had

already forgotten the man's name. "He runs this new profiling task

force you'll have heard about. The lass was one of his trainees."





"Aye, well, she'll get the same treatment from me as a Yorkshire lass

would," the doctor said drily, turning back to his grim task.





Tony was standing outside the now open French windows, looking in on the

crime scene where a photographer and a team of SO COs worked their way

round the room. He could not take his eyes off the wreckage of Shaz

Bowman. No matter how hard he tried, he could not avoid the occasional

flashback image of what she had been. It heightened his resolve, but it

was a provocation he could well have done without.





Worse for Simon, he thought bitterly. He'd been taken, putty-skinned

and trembling, back to police HQ to give a statement about Saturday

night. Tony knew enough about the workings of the official mind to

realize that the murder squad were probably treating him as their

current prime suspect. He was going to have to do something about that

sooner rather than later.





The DI whose name he couldn't remember walked down the steps and stood

behind him. "Helluva mess," he said.





"She was a good officer," Tony told him.





"We'll get the bastard," the DI said confidently. "Don't you worry

about that."





"I want to help."





The DI raised one eyebrow. "Not my decision," he said. "It's not a

serial killer, you know. We've never seen owl like this on our patch."





Tony fought to suppress his frustration. "Inspector, this is not a

first-time killing. Whoever did this is an expert. He might not have

killed on your patch or used this precise method before, but this is not

the product of amateur night out."





Before the inspector could respond, they were interrupted. The police

surgeon had finished his grisly work. "Well, Colin," he said, walking

over to them, "She's definitely dead."





With a quick sidelong glance, the policeman said, "Spare us the gallows

humour for once, Doc. Any idea when?"





"Ask your pathologist, Inspector Wharton," the doctor said huffily.





"I will. But in the meantime, can you give me a ballpark figure?"





The doctor peeled off his gloves with a snap of latex. "Monday

lunchtime ... let me see ... Some time between seven o'clock Saturday

night and four o'clock Sunday morning, depending on whether the heating

was on and how long for."





DI Colin Wharton sighed. "That's a bloody big window of opportunity.





Can't you get it tighter than that?"





"I'm a doctor, not bloody Mystic Meg," he said caustically. "And I'm

going back to my game of golf, if you don't mind. You'll have my report

in the morning."





Tony impulsively put a hand on his arm. "Doctor, I could use some help

here. I know it's not really your place to say, but you've obviously

developed a lot of expertise in this kind of thing." When in doubt,

flatter. "The injuries ... Do you know if she was still alive, or are

they postmortem?"





The doctor pursed full red lips and stared back consideringly at Shaz's

body. He looked like a small boy puckering up for his maiden aunt,

calculating how much of a tip it was going to earn him. "A





mixture of both," he said finally. "I reckon the eyes both went while

she was still alive. I think she must have been gagged or she'd have

screamed the place down. She probably passed out then, a combination of

shock and pain. Whatever was poured down her throat was very caustic

and that's what killed her. The total disintegration of her respiratory

tract, that's what they'll find when they open her up. I'd stake my

pension on it. Looking at the amount of blood, I'd reckon the ears came

off more or less as she was dying. They're neatly cut off, though. No

trial attempts like you usually get with any kind of mutilation. He

must have one hell of a sharp knife and a lot of nerve. If he was trying

to make sure she'd end up like them three wise monkeys, he went the

right way about it." He nodded to the two men. "I'll be off, then.





Leave you to it. Good luck finding him. You've got a right nutter

here." He waddled off round the side of the house.





"That bastard's got the worst bedside manner in the whole West Riding,"

Colin Wharton said in disgust. "Sorry about that."





Tony shook his head. "What's the point in dressing up something as

brutal as that in fancy words? Nothing alters the fact that somebody

took Shaz Bowman apart and made sure we knew why."





"What?" Wharton demanded. "Have I missed something here? What d'you

mean, we know why? I don't bloody know why."





"You saw the drawing, didn't you? The three wise monkeys. See no evil,

hear no evil, speak no evil. The killer destroyed her eyes, her ears,

her mouth. Doesn't that say something to you?"





Wharton shrugged. "Either the boyfriend's the killer, in which case

he's a certifiable nutter and it doesn't matter what screwed-up shite

was going round his head. Or else it was some other nutter who's got it

in for coppers because he thinks we stick our noses into things that

we'd be better off leaving alone."





"You don't think it could be a killer who specifically had it in for

Shaz because she was sticking her nose in somewhere it didn't belong?"





Tony suggested.





"I don't see how it could be," Wharton said dismissively. "She's never

worked any cases up here, has she? You lot aren't catching live ones

yet, so she's not had the chance to get up some local nutter's nose."





"Even though we're not catching new cases, we've been working on some

genuine old ones. Shaz came up with a theory the other day about a

previously unidentified serial killer ... "





"The Jacko Vance story?" Wharton couldn't stop the snigger. "We've all

had a good laugh about that one."





Tony's face tightened. "You shouldn't have heard anything about it. Who

let that out of the bag?"





"Nay, Doc, I'm not for dropping anybody else in it. Besides, you know

there are no secrets in a nick. That were too good a joke to keep a

secret. Jacko Vance, serial killer. It'll be the Queen Mum next!" He

spluttered with laughter and clapped Tony indulgently on the shoulder.





"Face it, Doc, chances are you picked a wrong ' when you co-opted the

boyfriend. You don't need me to tell you that nine times out of ten we

never end up looking beyond whoever the stiff's been shagging." He

raised a speculative eyebrow. "Not to mention the person who finds the

body."





Tony snorted derisively. "You'll be wasting your time if you try

pinning it on Simon Mcneill. He hasn't done this."





Wharton turned to face Tony, pulling a Marlboro out of its pack with his

teeth. He caught it in his lips and lit it with a throwaway lighter. "I

heard you lecture once, Doc," he said. "Over in Manchester. You said

the best hunters were the ones who were most like the prey. Two sides

of the same coin, you said. I reckon you were right. Only, one of your

hunters has gone native on you."





Jacko flapped a dismissive hand at his PA and hit a button on the remote

control. His wife's face filled the king-size TV screen as she handed

her audience over to the newsroom for the midday headlines. Still

nothing. The longer the better, he couldn't help thinking. The less

accurate the pathologist could be about the time of death, the further

it could be distanced from the stupid cow's visit to his home. As he

killed the TV picture and turned to the script in front of him, he

wondered momentarily what it must be like to have the sort of life where

no one would notice you'd been lying dead for a couple of days. It was

never likely to happen to him, he thought, self-satisfied as ever. It

had been a very long time since he'd been that insignificant in anyone's

life.





Even his mother would have noticed if he'd disappeared. She might well

have been delighted at the prospect, but she'd have at least noticed. He

wondered how Donna Doyle's mother was reacting to the disappearance of

her daughter. He'd seen nothing on the news, but there was no reason

why she should cause more of a stir than any of the others.





He'd made them pay, all of them, for what had been done to him. He knew

he couldn't take it out on the one who deserved it; it would be too

obvious, the finger pointing straight at him. But he could find

surrogate Jillies all over the place, looking just as ripe and delicious

as she'd been when he'd first pinned her to the ground and felt her

virginity surrender to his power. He could make them understand what

he'd been through, feel what he'd felt in ways that the treacherous

bitch had never comprehended. His girls could never abandon him; he was

the one with power over life and death. And he could make them

discharge her debt over and over again.





Once, he had believed that there would come an occasion when these

surrogate deaths would have purged him for good. But the catharsis

never lasted. Always, the need came creeping back.





Lucky he'd got it off to such a fine art, really. All those years, all

those deaths, and only one off-the-wall maverick cop had ever suspected.





Jacko smiled a very private smile, one his fans never saw. The means of

payment had had to be different for Shaz Bowman. But they'd been

satisfying, nonetheless. It made him wonder if it might not be the time

to ring a few changes.





It never did to become a slave to routine.





Frustration drove Tony up the stairs two at a time. No one would let

him near Simon. Colin Wharton was stonewalling, claiming he didn't have

the authority to allow Tony to collaborate on the investigation. Paul

Bishop was out of the building at one of his interminable and

ever-convenient meetings, and the Divisional Chief Superintendent was

allegedly too busy to see Tony.





He threw open the door of the seminar room, expecting to see the four

remaining members of his task force engaged in some meaningful activity.





Instead, Carol Jordan looked up from the file of papers in front of her.





"I was beginning to think I'd got the day wrong," she said.





"Ah, Carol," Tony sighed, subsiding into the nearest chair. "I

completely forgot you were coming back this afternoon."





"Looks like you weren't the only one," she said drily, gesturing at the

remaining empty seats. "Where's the rest of the team? Playing truant?"





"Nobody's told you, have they?" Tony said, looking up at her with angry

eyes in a pained face.





"What's happened?" she asked, her chest constricting. What had

happened now to drill more anguish into him?





"You remember Shaz Bowman?"





Carol nodded with a rueful smile. "Ambition on legs. Blazing blue

eyes, uses her ears and mouth in the correct proportion of two to one."





Tony winced. "Not any more she doesn't."





"What's happened to her?" The concern in Carol's voice was still more

for Tony than for Shaz.





He swallowed and closed his eyes, summoning the picture of her death and

forcing all emotion out of his voice. "A psychopath happened to her.





Somebody who thought it would be entertaining to gouge out those blazing

blue eyes and chop off those wide-open ears and pour something so

corrosive into that smart mouth that it ended up looking like

multicoloured bubble gum. She's dead, Carol. Shaz Bowman is dead."





Carol's face opened in incredulous horror. "No," she breathed. She was

silent for a long moment. "That's terrible," she finally said. "So much

life in her."





"She was the best of the bunch. Desperate to be the best. And she

wasn't arrogant with it. She could work with the others without making

it obvious that she was the racehorse among the donkeys. What he did to

her, it went straight to the heart of who she was."





"Why?" As she had done so often in their previous case, Carol picked

the important question.





"He left her with a computer print-out. A drawing and an encyclopedia

entry about the three wise monkeys," Tony said.





Understanding flashed into Carol's eyes, followed swiftly by a confused

frown. "You don't seriously think ... That theory she came out with

the other day? It can't be anything to do with that, can it?"





Tony rubbed his forehead with his fingertips. "I keep coming back to

it. What else is there? The only live case we've had anything to do

with is your arsonist, and none of them came up with enough to threaten

anyone."





"But Jacko Vance?" Carol shook her head. "Surely you can't believe

that? Grannies from Land's End to John O'Groats dote on him. Half the

women I know think he's as sexy as Sean Connery."





"And you? What do you think?" Tony asked. There was no innuendo in

the question.





Carol turned the question over in her mind, making sure she had the

right words before she spoke. "I wouldn't trust him," she eventually

said. "He's too glossy. Non-stick. Nothing leaves a lasting impact.





He'll be charming, sympathetic, warm, understanding. But as soon as he

moves on to the next interview, it's like the previous encounter never

happened. Having said that ... "





"You'd never have thought of him as a serial killer," Tony said flatly.





"Me neither. There are some people in public life that you wouldn't

feel overly surprised to see on a fistful of murder charges. Jacko

Vance isn't one of them."





They sat in silence facing each other across the room. "It might not be

him," Carol said at last. "What about somebody in his entourage? A

driver, a minder, a researcher. One of those hangers-on, what do they

call them?"





"Gofers





"Yeah, gofers right."





"But that still doesn't answer your question. Why?" Tony pushed

himself to his feet and started pacing out the perimeter of the room. "I

don't see how anything she said in here could conceivably have made it

into Jacko Vance's circles. So how did our theoretical killer know she

was on to him?"





Carol swung round awkwardly in her chair so she could watch him as he

crossed behind her. "She wanted to be a glory girl, Tony. I don't

think she was ready to let it drop. I think she decided to follow up

her idea. And one way or another, she alerted the killer."





Tony reached the corner and stopped. "Do you know ... " was all he had

time for before the door opened on Detective Chief Superintendent Dougal

Mccormick. His bulky shoulders almost filled the frame.





An Aberdonian, he resembled one of the black Aberdeen Angus cattle from

his native territory: black curls tumbling over a broad forehead, liquid

dark eyes always on the lookout for the red rag, wide cheekbones seeming

to drag his fleshy nose across his face, full lips always moist. The

only incongruity was his voice. Where a deep roar should have rumbled

in his chest, a melodious light tenor emerged. "Dr. Hill," he said,

closing the door behind him without looking at it. His eyes flickered

in Carol's direction then looked a question at Tony.





"DCS Mccormick, this is DCI Carol Jordan from the East Yorkshire force.





We're helping her with an arson inquiry," Tony said.





Carol stood up. "Pleased to meet you, sir."





Mccormick's nod was almost imperceptible. "If you'd excuse us, I need a

moment with Dr. Hill," he said.





Carol knew when she was being dismissed. "I'll wait down in the

canteen."





"Dr. Hill won't be staying on the premises," Mccormick said. "You'd do

better to wait in the car park."





Carol's eyes widened, but she simply said, "Very well, sir. I'll see

you outside, Tony."





As soon as Carol had closed the door behind her, Tony rounded on

Mccormick. "And what exactly do you mean by that, Mr. Mccormick?"





"What I said. This is my division and I'm running a murder inquiry. A

police officer has been ... destroyed, and it's my job to find out who's

responsible. There's no sign of forcible entry in Sharon Bowman's flat

and, by all accounts, she was no fool. So the chances are she knew her

killer. And as far as I know at this point in time, the only people

Sharon Bowman knew in Leeds were her fellow officers in the task force,

and you, Dr. Hill."





"Shaz," Tony interrupted. "She hated being called Sharon. Shaz, that's

what she was called."





"Shaz, Sharon, whatever, it makes little difference now." Mccormick

brushed the objection aside with all the casual grace of a bull flicking

its tail at a fly. "The point is that you people are the only ones

she'd have let in. So I don't want you talking to each other until my

murder squad officers have had a chance to interview each and every one

of you. Until further notice, this task force is suspended. You will

not be authorized to occupy police premises and you are not to

communicate with each other. I've already discussed this with Commander

Bishop and the Home Office, and we're all agreed that's the appropriate

path to go down. Is that clear?"





Tony shook his head. It was all too much. Shaz was dead, horribly

dead. And now Mccormick wanted to arrest one of the handful of people

who might actually be able to provide a way through to her killer. "You

might, by some stretch of the imagination, have authority over the

officers in my squad. But I'm not a police officer, Mccormick. I don't

answer to you. You should be using our talents, not pissing on us. We

can help, man, can't you understand that?"





"Help?" Mccormick's voice was scornful. "Help? What were you planning

on doing? I've heard some of the daft ideas your lot have come up with.





My men are going to be chasing leads, not jokes. Jacko Vance, for

heaven's sake. You'll be asking us to arrest Sooty next."





"We're on the same side," Tony said, smudges of scarlet rising across

his cheekbones.





"Maybe so, but some kinds of help turn out to be more of a hindrance. I

want you out of here now, and I don't want you bothering my men. You

will report back to this station at ten tomorrow morning so that my

officers can interview you formally about Sharon Bowman. Have I made

myself clear, Dr. Hill?"





"Listen, I can help you here. I understand killers; I know why they do

the things they do."





"It's not hard to work that out. They're sick in the head, that's why."





"Granted, but they're all sick in the head in their own particular

ways," Tony said. "This one, for example. I bet he didn't assault her

sexually, did he?"





Mccormick frowned. "How did you know about that?"





Tony ran a hand through his hair and spoke passionately. "I didn't know

in the sense of being told. I know because I can read things in a crime

scene that your men can't. This wasn't a run-of-the-mill sexual

homicide, Superintendent, this was a deliberate message to us that this

killer thinks he's so far ahead of us he's never going to be caught. I

can help you catch him."





"Sounds to me like you're more interested in covering up for your own,"

Mccormick said, shaking his head. "You've picked up some information at

the scene of the crime and turned it into some fancy theory. It'll take

more than that to convince me. And I haven't got time to wait till you

pick up the next bit of gossip. As far as this station's concerned,

you're history. And your bosses at the Home Office agree with me."





Fury drove Tony's normal tools of flattery and appeasement underground.





"You are making one hell of a mistake, Mccormick," he said, his voice

rough with anger.





The big detective gave a snort of laughter, "I'll take that risk, son."





He gestured with his thumb towards the door. "Away you go, now."





Realizing he couldn't win on this battleground, Tony bit down hard on

the flesh of his cheek. The flavour of humiliation was the coppery

taste of fresh blood. Defiantly, he walked over to his locker and

pulled out his briefcase, filling it with the missing person files and

the squad's analyses. Snapping the lock shut, he turned on his heel and

walked out. On his way through the police station, officers fell silent

as he passed. He was thankful that Carol wasn't there to witness his

rout. She would never have been able to keep the silence that was his

only remaining weapon.





As the front door swung shut behind him, he heard an unidentifiable

voice behind him call out, "Bloody good riddance."





In a rare moment of lucidity in the ocean of pain, Donna Doyle

contemplated her brief life and the foolish trust that had brought her

to this place. Regret swelled inside her like a strange tumour,

devouring everything it encountered. One mistake, one attempt to follow

the rainbow to the pot of gold, one act of faith that was no more

preposterous than the one the priest talked about every Sunday, and here

she was. Once upon a time, she'd have said she'd do anything for a

chance at stardom. Now she knew it wasn't true.





It wasn't fair. It wasn't as if she'd just wanted to be famous for

herself. With the fame would have come money, so her mum wouldn't have

had to scrimp and save and worry about every penny like she'd had to all

the time since Dad had died. Donna had wanted it to be a surprise, a

wonderful, wicked, exciting surprise. Now it would never happen. Even

if she got out of here, she knew she wasn't going to be a star, not

ever. She might be famous for fifteen minutes, like the song said, but

not for being a one-armed TV star like Jacko Vance. Even if they found

her, she was finished.





They could still find her, she told herself. She wasn't just whistling

in the dark, she thought defiantly. They'd be looking for her by now,

surely. Her mum would have gone to the police, her picture would be in

the papers, maybe even on the telly. People all over the country would

see her and search their memory. Somebody would remember her. There

had been loads of people on the trains. Half a dozen other passengers

had got off with her at Five Walls Halt. At least one of them must have

noticed her. All dolled up in her best outfit, she knew she looked

tasty. Surely the police would be asking questions, working out whose

Land Rover she'd got into? Wouldn't they?





She groaned. In her heart, she knew this would be the last place she

would lie. Alone in her tomb, Donna Doyle wept.





Tony sat hunched forward in the armchair, staring into the flickering

gas flames of the fake hearth. He was still nursing the same glass of

Theakston's he'd had since they'd arrived back at Carol's cottage. She'd

refused to take no for an answer. He'd had a shock, he needed someone

to discuss the case with, and she needed his input on her arsonist. She

had a cat to feed, he had none, so logically their destination should be

an hour down the motorway to the outskirts of Seaford.





Since they'd arrived, he'd said barely a word. He'd sat with his eyes

on the fire and his mind projecting the film of Shaz Bowman's death.





Carol had left him alone, taking the chance to throw together a packet

of chicken breasts from the freezer, a couple of chopped onions and a

jar of ready-made cider and apple sauce. She'd put the result into the

oven with a couple of baking potatoes and left it on a low heat while

she made up the guest bedroom. She knew there was little point in

expecting anything more or less from Tony.





She poured herself a large gin and tonic, adding a couple of chunks of

frozen lemon, and returned to the living room. Without saying anything,

she tucked her legs under her and let the armchair opposite his swallow

her up. Between them, Nelson lay stretched out like a long black hearth

rug.





Tony looked up at Carol and managed a faint smile. "Thanks for the

peace and quiet," he said. "It has a very welcoming ambience, your

cottage."





"That's one of the reasons why I bought it. That and the view. I'm

glad you like it."





"I ... I keep imagining it," he said. "The process. Tying her up,

gagging her. Torturing her with the knowledge that she wasn't going to

get out of it alive, not knowing what she knew."





"Whatever that was."





He nodded. "Whatever that was."





"I suppose it brings it all back to you?" Carol said softly.





He let out a long breath. "Inevitably," he said through tight lips. He

looked up at her, his keen eyes shining under the jut of his frowning

eyebrows. When he spoke again, his voice was a brisk contrast,

indicating he wanted to escape the memories that were sometimes almost

as bad as the experience itself. "Carol, you're a detective. You heard

Shaz's presentation, you were one of the ones who passed judgement on

it. Imagine you'd been on the other end of our criticisms. Imagine

you're back at the start of your career, with it all to prove. Don't

think too hard about this. Give me your gut reaction. What would you

do?"





"I'd want to prove you were wrong and I was right."





"Yes, yes," Tony acknowledged impatiently. "That's a given. But what

would you do? How would you go about it?"





Carol sipped her drink and considered. "I know what I'd do now. I'd

put a small team together just a sergeant and a couple of DCs and blitz

every one of those cases. I'd go back and talk to friends, family.





Check out whether the missing girls were Jacko Vance fans, whether

they'd gone to the event he was appearing at. If they did, who they

went with. What their companions noticed."





"Shaz didn't have either the time or the team for that kind of

operation. Think back to what it was like when you were young and

hungry," Tony urged.





"As to what I'd have done then ... Given no resources, you have to fall

back on your own assets."





Tony gave her an encouraging nod. "Meaning?"





"Smart mouth, fancy footwork. You know you're right, that's the bottom

line. You know the truth is out there waiting for the proof to go round

it. Me? I'd shake the tree and see what falls out."





"So you'd do what, specifically?"





"These days, I'd probably drop some poison in the ear of a friendly

journalist and plant a story that would mean something more to our

killer than it would to the casual reader. But I haven't seen any signs

that Shaz had those kind of contacts or, if she did, that she used them.





What I'd probably have done in her shoes, if I'd had the bottle, would

have been to set up a meeting with the man himself."





Tony sat back in his chair and took a long swallow of beer. "I'm glad

you said that. It's the sort of idea I'm always reluctant to bring out

into the open in case your lot starts laughing because no

self-respecting police officer would dream of doing something so risky

either to life or career."





"You think she made contact with Jacko Vance?"





He nodded.





"And you think that whatever she said to him ... "





"Or to someone around him," Tony interrupted. "It might not be Vance.





It might be his manager or his minder or even his wife. But yes, I

think she said something to someone in that group of people and she made

a killer afraid."





"Whoever it was didn't waste much time."





"He didn't waste time and he's clearly got a lot of nerve to kill her in

her own living room. To risk a cry, a scream, the noise of furniture

being knocked over, anything untoward in a house split into flats."





Carol sipped her drink, savouring the growing edge of lemon as the

frozen fruit thawed completely. "And he had to get her there in the

first place."





Tony looked puzzled. "What makes you say that?"





"She'd never have agreed to meet someone she suspected was a serial

killer in her own home. Not even with the hubris of youth. That would

be like inviting a fox into the henhouse. And if he turned up there

later, after the official interview, she'd hit the panic button, not let

him in. No, Tony, she was already his prisoner by the time she got

home."





It was such flashes of insight backed with impeccable logic that had

made Carol Jordan such a joy to work with before, Tony remembered.





"You're right, of course. Thank you." He toasted her mutely with his

glass. Now he knew where to start. He finished his beer and said, "Any

chance of another one? Then I think we need to talk about your little

problem."





Carol uncurled herself from the chair and stretched like Nelson. "You

sure you don't want to talk some more about Shaz?" Tony's expression of

distaste told her all she needed to know. She went through to the

kitchen for another beer.





"I'll save it for your West Yorkshire colleagues tomorrow morning. If

you haven't heard from me by teatime, you'd better make sure I've got a

decent brief," he called after her.





When she was settled again in the armchair, he dragged his brooding eyes

away from the fire and pulled a couple of sheets of lined paper from his

briefcase. "At the tail end of the week, I got the squad to work on

their idea of a profile for you. They had a day to work up an

individual profile, then on Friday, they collaborated on a joint effort.





I've got a copy of it with me, I'll show you later."





"Terrific. I didn't want to say anything before, but I've been working

on a profile of my own. It'll be interesting to see how they compare."





She tried to keep her voice light, but Tony heard the desire for his

praise, nevertheless. It made what he had to say all the more awkward.





Sometimes he wished he smoked. It would give him something to do with

his hands and mouth at times like this.





Instead, he ran a hand over his face. "Carol, I have to tell you that I

suspect you've all been wasting your time."





Unconsciously, her chin jutted forward. "Meaning what?" The words were

more aggressive than the tone.





"Meaning that I don't think your fires fit into any known category."





"You mean they're not arson?"





Before he could answer, a heavy knock reverberated through the cottage.





Startled, Carol spilled a few drops of her drink. "Are you expecting

visitors?" Tony asked, turning to the dark window behind him to see if

anything penetrated the darkness outside.





"No," she said, jumping to her feet and moving across the room to the

heavy wooden door that opened into the small stone porch. As she

unlatched the door, a chill gust of wind filled the room with a cold

waft of estuary silt. Carol looked surprised. Beyond her, Tony

glimpsed the outline of a large male shape. "Jim," she exclaimed. "I

wasn't expecting you."





"I tried to ring you this afternoon and I kept getting the runaround

from Sergeant Taylor. So I thought I might as well head on up here and

see if I could run you to earth." As Carol stepped back, Pendlebury

followed her in. "Oh, I'm sorry you've got company."





"No, your timing couldn't be better," she said, Waving him towards the

fire. This is Dr. Tony Hill from the Home Office. We're just talking

about the arson case. Tony, this is Jim Pendlebury, the fire chief in

Seaford."





Tony ceded his hand into the bone-grinding grip of a competitive

handshake. "Pleased to meet you," he said mildly, refusing the

invitation to joust.





"Tony is in charge of the new National Offender Profiling Task Force in

Leeds," Carol said.





"Tough job." Pendlebury thrust his hands into the deep pockets of the

fashionably oversized mac he was wearing. They emerged with a bottle of

Australian Shiraz on the end of each. "Housewarming present. Now we

can all discuss our firebug with a bit of lubrication."





Carol fetched glasses and corkscrew and poured wine for herself and

Pendlebury, Tony waving his glass to indicate he'd stick with the beer.





"So, Tony, what have your baby boffins got to tell us?" Pendlebury

asked, stretching his long legs out in front of him, forcing Nelson to

move to one side. The cat gave him a malevolent glare and curled into a

ball beside Carol's chair.





"Nothing Carol couldn't work out for herself, I imagine. The problem is

that I suspect what they've done is irrelevant."





Pendlebury's laugh sounded too loud in the confines of the cottage. "Am

I hearing things?" he said. "A profiler admitting it's all a load of

bollocks? Carol, have you got the tape running?"





Wondering how many more times he would have to smile politely while his

life's work was denigrated, Tony let Pendlebury wind down before he

spoke. "Would you use a screwdriver to drive a fence post into the

ground?"





Pendlebury cocked his head to one side. "You're saying profiling is the

wrong tool for the job?"





"That's exactly what I'm saying. Profiling works on certain crimes

where the motivation is psychopathic to some degree."





"Meaning?" Pendlebury asked, drawing his legs up and leaning forward,

his interest wholly engaged, his face sceptical.





"Do you want the thirty-second version or the full lecture?"





"You'd better give me the idiot's guide, me being a mere fireman."





Tony ran a hand through his thick dark hair, a reflex that always left

him looking like a cartoon mad scientist. "OK. Most crimes in this

country are committed either for gain or in the heat of the moment, or

under the influence of drink or drugs. Or a combination of all of the

above. The crime is a means to an end acquiring cash or drugs, gaining

revenge, putting a halt to unacceptable behaviour.





"A handful of crimes have their roots in stranger soil. They grow from

an inner psychological compulsion on the part of the criminal. Something

drives him and it's almost always a him to perform certain acts that are

an end in themselves. The criminal act can be as petty as stealing

women's underwear from washing lines. It can be as serious as serial

murder. Serial arson is one such crime.





"And if what we were dealing with here was serial arson, I'd be the

first to defend the value of a psychological profile. But as I was

saying to Carol just before you arrived, I don't think you've got your

common or garden thrill-seeking firebug in Seaford. It's not a torch

for hire either. What you've got here is a beast of a different colour

altogether. More of a hybrid."





Pendlebury looked unconvinced. "Want to tell us what you mean by that?"





"I'd be happy to," Tony said, leaning back and cradling his glass in his

linked fingers. "Let's eliminate the hired arsonist for a start. While

it's true that a handful of the fires have probably been an answer to

the building owner's prayers, in the vast majority of cases, there seems

to be no financial gain. Mostly, we're looking at massive inconvenience

and, in a few cases, positive damage to the businesses or sections of

the community affected. They're not grudge fires either different

insurance companies, no reason why anyone would have it in for such a

wide spectrum of buildings. There's no common link at all, except that

the fires were all set at night and up until the last one, they took

place in deserted premises. So, no reason to think there is a

professional torch for hire behind the blazes. Agreed?"





Carol bent over to pick up the wine and refill her glass. "You'll get

no argument from me."





"What if there was a mixture of motives behind the hiring? What if he

was hired sometimes for gain, sometimes for grudge?" Pendlebury

stubbornly asked.





"Still leaves too many unaccounted for," Carol said. "My team ruled out

a torch for hire almost from the start. So, Tony, why isn't it some

emotional retard doing it for kicks?"





"I could be wrong," he said.





"Oh, yeah. Your track record is littered with mistakes," Carol said

ironically.





"Thank you. Here's why I don't think it's some nutter. All these fires

have been carefully set. In most cases, there have been almost no

forensic traces, just the identification of the seat of the fire and

some indication of lighter fuel and ignition trails. Mostly there's no

sign of forced entry either. If there hadn't been such a spate of these

fires over a relatively short period of time, chances are most of them

would have been written off as accidents or carelessness. That would

point to a professional torch, except that we've already written that

off for other reasons." He picked up the papers he'd dropped by his

chair earlier and gave his notes a quick glance.





"So we've got someone who's controlled and organized, which firebugs

almost never are. He brings stuff with him and also uses available

materials. He knows what he's doing, yet there's no sign of him having

graduated to this from small-scale fires in rubbish tips, garden sheds,

building sites.





Then you've got to consider that most firebugs are sexually motivated.





When they set fires, they often masturbate or urinate or defecate at the

sites. There have been no traces of that, nor of any pornographic

materials. If he doesn't wank at the fire site, he probably does it at

the vantage point where he watches the fire from. Again, there are no

reports from outraged members of the public of anyone exposing

themselves in the vicinities of the fires. So, another negative."





"What about timing?" Carol interrupted. "He's doing it more often than

he was when he started out. Isn't that typical of a serial offender?"





"Yeah, it's in all the books about serial killers," Pendlebury added.





"It's less true of firebugs," Tony said. "Especially the ones who go in

for the more serious arson attacks like this. The gaps are

unpredictable. They can go weeks, months or even years without a big

blaze. But within the series, you do get sprees, so yes, the timing of

these fires might support the idea that you're looking at a serial

offender. But I'm not trying to suggest that these fires are the work

of several individuals. I think it's one person. I just don't believe

he's a thrill seeker."





"So what are you saying?" Carol said.





"Whoever is setting these fires is not a psychopath. I believe he has a

conventional criminal motive for what he's doing."





"So what is this so-called motive?" Pendlebury asked suspiciously.





"That's what we don't know yet."





Pendlebury snorted. "Minor detail."





"Actually, in a sense it is, Jim," Carol chipped in. "Because once

we've established that it's not a psychopath operating on unique and

personal logic, we should be able to apply reasoning to uncover what's

behind the fires. And once we've done that ... well, it's just a

matter of solid coppering."





A look of disgruntled annoyance had settled over Jim Pendlebury's face

like an occluded cold front on the weather map. "Well, I can't think of

any reason for setting these fires unless you get a kick out of them."





"Oh, I don't know," Tony said casually, starting almost to enjoy

himself.





"Share it then, Sherlock," Carol urged him.





"Could be a security firm coming round in the wake of the fires offering

cut-rate night watchmen. Could be a fire-alarm or sprinkler-system

company facing hard times. Or ... " his voice tailed off and he cast a

look of speculation at the fire chief.





"What?"





"Jim, do you employ any part-time firemen?"





Pendlebury looked horrified. Then he took in the half-smile twitching

the corner of Tony's mouth and misread it completely. The fire chief

visibly relaxed and grinned. "You're at the wind-up," he said, wagging

a finger at Tony.





"If you say so," Tony said. "But do you? Just as a matter of

curiosity?"





The fireman's eyes showed uncertainty and suspicion. "We do, yes."





"Maybe tomorrow you could let me have their names?" Carol asked.





Pendlebury's head thrust forward and he stared intently into Carol's

closed face. His broad shoulders seemed to expand as he clenched his

fists. "My God," he said wonderingly. "You really mean it, don't you,

Carol?"





"We can't afford to ignore any possibilities," she said calmly. "This

is not personal, Jim. But Tony has opened up a valid line of inquiry.





I'd be derelict in my duty if I didn't follow it through."





"Derelict in your duty?" Pendlebury got to his feet. "If my fire crews

were derelict in their duty, there wouldn't be a building in this city

left standing. My people put their lives on the line every time this

nutter has a night on the town. And you sit there and suggest one of

them might be behind it?"





Carol stood up and faced him. "I'd feel just the same if it was a

question of a bent copper. No one's accusing anyone at this stage. I've

worked with Tony before, and I'd stake my career that he doesn't make

mischievous or ill-considered suggestions. Why don't you sit down and

have another glass of wine?" She put a hand on his arm and smiled.





"Come on, there's no need for us to fall out."





Slowly Pendlebury relaxed and gingerly lowered himself back into his

chair. He allowed Carol to top up his glass and even managed a

half-smile at Tony. "I'm very protective of my officers," he said.





Tony, impressed at Carol's smooth handling of a potentially explosive

situation, had shrugged. "They're lucky to have you," was all he said.





Somehow, the three of them managed to shift the conversation on to the

more neutral territory of how Carol was settling in at East Yorkshire.





The fire chief slipped into professional York-shire man mode, keeping

everyone happy with a series of anecdotes. For Tony, it was a blessed

rescue from thoughts of Shaz Bowman's last hours.





Later, in the small hours and the loneliness of Carol's spare room,

there was no distraction to damp down the flames of imagination. As he

pushed away the nightmare vision of her distorted and devastated face,

he promised Shaz Bowman that he would expose the man who had done this

to her. No matter what the price.





And Tony Hill was a man who knew all about paying the ferryman.





Jacko Vance sat in his soundproofed and electronically shielded

projection room at the top of the house, behind locked doors.





Obsessively, he replayed the tape he'd spliced together from his

recordings of the late evening news bulletins on a variety of channels,

terrestrial and satellite. What they all had in common was the news of

Shaz Bowman's death. Her blue eyes blazed at him again from the screen

time after time, an exciting contrast to his last memory of her.





They wouldn't be showing pictures of her like that. Not even after the

watershed. Not even with an X-certificate.





He wondered how Donna Doyle was feeling. There had been nothing on TV

about her. They all thought they had star quality, but the truth was

none of them raised the faintest flicker of interest in anyone except

him. For him, they were perfect, the ultimate representation of his

ideal woman. He loved their pliancy, their willingness to believe

exactly what he wanted them to believe. And the perfection of the

moment when they realized this encounter was not about sex and fame but

pain and death. He loved that look in their eyes.





When he saw that translation from adoration to alarm, their faces seemed

to lose all individuality. They no longer merely resembled Jillie, they

became her. It made the punishment so easy and so perfectly right.





What also made it appropriate was the unfairness. Almost all of his

girls spoke about their families with affection. It might be shrouded

behind a veil of adolescent frustration and exasperation, but it was

obvious as he listened to them that their mothers or fathers or siblings

cared abo-'t them even though their sluttish readiness to do whatever he

wanted demonstrated they didn't merit that concern. He'd deserved their

lives, and what had he got?





Anger surged through him, but like a thermostat, self-control cut in and

tamped the fires down. This was not an appropriate time or place for

that energy, he reminded himself. His anger could be channelled in a

variety of useful directions; ranting pointlessly about what he had been

deprived of wasn't one of them.





He took a series of deep breaths and forced his emotions into another

mould. Satisfaction. That's what he ought to be feeling. Satisfaction

at a job well done, a danger neutralized.





Little Jack Horner





Sat in the corner





Eating his pudding and pie.





He put in his thumb





And pulled out a plum





And said, "What a good boy am I!"





Vance giggled softly. He'd put in his thumbs and pulled out the

glistening plum of Shaz Bowman's eyes and felt the silent scream

vibrating in his very core. It had been easier than he'd expected. It

took surprisingly little force to pop an eye free from its roots.





The only pity of it was that you couldn't then see her expression when

you poured the acid in or sliced the ears off. He didn't anticipate any

need for there to be a next time, but if there were, he'd have to think

carefully about the order of the ceremony.





Sighing with satisfaction, he rewound the tape.





If Micky hadn't been such a purist about her morning routine, they might

have heard about Shaz's death on the radio news or seen it on satellite

TV. But Micky insisted on no exposure to the day's news until she was

behind the closed door of her office at the studios. So they

breakfasted to Mozart and drove in to Wagner. No one from the programme

was ever foolish enough to thrust a tabloid at Micky as she strode from

car parking slot to her desk. Not twice, anyway.





So, because their early morning start forced them to bed before the late

bulletins that had alerted Jacko, it was Betsy who had the first shock

of recognition at Shaz's picture. Even dulled by newsprint, her blue

eyes were still the first thing that demanded notice. "My God," Betsy

breathed, moving round behind Micky's desk the better to examine the

front pages.





"What is it?" Micky said without pausing in the habitual process of

removing her jacket, placing it on a hanger and checking it critically

for creases.





"Look, Micky." Betsy thrust the Daily Mail towards her. "Isn't that

the policewoman who came to the house on Saturday? Just as we were

leaving?"





Micky registered the thick black type before she took in the photograph.





SLAUGHTERED, it read. Her eyes moved to Shaz Bowman's smiling face

underneath the peak of a Metropolitan Police cap. There can't be two of

them," she said. She sat down heavily on one of the visitors' armchairs

that faced her desk and read the melodramatic copy that provided Shaz's

epitaph. Words like '', '', '-soaked', '' and

'gruesome' leapt out to ambush her. She felt strangely queasy.





In a television career that had spanned war zones, massacres and

individual tragedy, no one in Micky's life had ever been touched

personally by any of the catastrophes she had reported. Even a

connection as tangential as hers to Shaz Bowman was all the more

shocking because it had no precedent. "Jesus," she said, stretching the

syllables. She looked up at Betsy, who read the shock in her face. "She

was in our house on Saturday morning. According to this, they think she

was murdered late Saturday or early Sunday. We spoke to her. And within

hours, she was dead. What are we going to do, Bets?"





Betsy moved round the desk and crouched beside Micky, hands flat on her

thighs, staring up into her face. "We're going to do nothing," she

said. "It's not up to us to do anything. She came to see Jacko, not

us. She's nothing to do with us."





Micky looked appalled. "We can't do nothing," she protested. "Whoever

killed her, they must have hooked up with her after she left our house.





At the very least, it lets the police know she was alive and well and

walking around of her own free will in London on Saturday morning. We

can't ignore it, Bets."





"Sweetheart, take a deep breath and think about what you're saying. This

isn't any old murder victim. She was a police officer. That means her

colleagues are not going to be satisfied with a one-page statement

saying she came to the house and we left. They're going to be stripping

our lives down to the bone, on the off chance that there's something

there they should know about. You know and I know that we just won't

stand up to that kind of scrutiny. I say, leave it to Jacko. I'll give

him a call and tell him to say we'd gone before she arrived. It's

simplest that way."





Micky pushed herself back violently. The chair slid along the carpet

and Betsy almost toppled forward. Micky jumped to her feet and started

pacing agitatedly. "And what happens if they start questioning the

neighbours and there's some nosy old biddy who remembers DC Bowman

arriving and then us leaving? Anyway, I was the one who spoke to her in

the first place. I made the appointment. What if she jotted that down

in her notebook? What if she even taped the call, for God's sake? I

can't believe you think we should just shut up about it."





Betsy struggled to her feet, her chin tipped back to reveal a stubborn

set to her firm jaw. "If you'd stop being such a bloody drama queen,

you'd see I'm talking sense," she said in a low, angry voice. She'd

spent too long providing the advice that Micky routinely acted upon to

abandon the role now it had become so crucial. "No good will come of

it," she added ominously.





Micky stopped by the desk and picked up the phone. "I'm ringing Jacko,"

she said, glancing at her watch. "He won't be up yet. At least I can

break the news more gently than the tabloids."





"Good. Maybe he'll talk some sense into you," Betsy said caustically.





"I'm not calling for permission, Betsy. I'm calling to tell him I'm

about to phone the police." As she punched in her husband's private

number, Micky looked sadly at her lover. "God, I can't believe you're

running so scared that you'd kid yourself you can walk away from doing

the right thing."





"It's called love," Betsy said bitterly, turning away to hide the tears

of anger and humiliation that had sprung without warning.





"No, Betsy. It's called fear ... Hello, Jacko? It's me. Listen, I've

got some terrible news for you ... "





Betsy turned her head and watched Micky's mobile face with its frame of

silky blonde hair. It was a sight that had given her pleasure beyond

dreams of avarice over the years. All she felt now was an unreasonable,

unfathomable sense of impending disaster.





Jacko leaned back on his pillows and considered what he'd just heard.





He'd been in two minds whether to call the police himself. On the one

hand, it argued for his innocence, since, for all he knew, nobody

outside his household knew DC Bowman had been anywhere near him. On the

other hand, it made him look a little too eager to be involved in a

high-profile murder inquiry. And one of the things everyone who had

read a book on psychopathic killers knew was that the murderer often

tried to insert himself into the investigation.





Leaving it to Micky was somehow much safer. It demonstrated his

innocence at second hand; she was his devoted wife, crammed with public

probity and therefore to be trusted in her account of events. He knew

it was safe to assume she'd go straight to the police as soon as she saw

Shaz's picture, which would be well before his normal rising time, so

there would be no question of him having known and said nothing.





Because, of course, officer, he'd been too busy to watch the evening

news the previous day. Why, sometimes he barely had time to watch his

own show, never mind his wife's!





What he had to do now was to work out his strategy. There would be no

question of him having to schlepp up to Leeds to talk to the

investigating plods; the police would come to him, he felt sure. If he

was proved wrong, he wouldn't call in any favours just yet. He'd play

along, the magnanimous man with nothing to hide. Of course you can have

an autograph for your wife, officer.





The important thing now was to plan. Imagine every contingency and work

out in advance how best to deal with it. Planning was the secret of his

success. It was a lesson he'd almost had to learn the hard way. The

first time, he'd not really worked out the eventualities ahead of time.





He'd been intoxicated by the possibilities he saw opening in front of

him, and he'd not realized how necessary it was to project all the

conceivable outcomes and work out how to deal with them. He'd not had

the Northumberland cottage then, relying foolishly on a tumbledown

walkers' hut that he remembered from hill-walking expeditions in his

youth.





He'd thought no one would be using the place in the dead of winter and

knew he could drive right up to it on an old drovers' track. Because he

dared not leave her alive, he'd had to finish her off the night he'd

taken her there. But it had been almost dawn by the time she'd taken

her last breath. Shaken and exhausted by the effort of confining her,

carrying the heavy vice that would crush her arm to a bloody pulp, then

killing her with a wicked ligature made from a guitar string (symbolic,

if he'd but considered it, of another of the accomplishments he'd lost),

the planned burial had been beyond him. He decided to leave her where

she was and come back the following night to deal with the carcass.





Jacko sucked his breath in at the memory. He'd been on the main road,

only a couple of miles from the turn-off to the track, when the local

news bulletin announced that the body of a young woman had been

discovered by a group of ramblers within the past hour. The shock had

nearly sent the Land Rover off the road.





Somehow, he'd controlled himself and driven home in a lather of clammy

sweat. Amazingly, he hadn't left sufficient forensic traces for there

to be any trail leading back to him. He was never questioned. As far

as he knew, he was never even considered. The previous connection was

so minimal as to be insignificant.





He'd learned three crucial things from that experience. Firstly, he

needed to find a way to make it last so he could savour her suffering as

she went through what he'd endured.





Secondly, he didn't actually enjoy the act of killing. He liked what

led up to it, the agony and the terror, and he loved the sense of

control that having been responsible for taking a life gave him, but

despatching a strong, healthy young woman was no fun. Far too much like

hard work, he had decided. He didn't much mind whether they died of

septicaemia or despair, he preferred it when he didn't have to do it

himself.





And thirdly, he needed a place of safety, both metaphorically and

literally. Micky, Northumberland and the voluntary work with the

terminally ill had been the tripartite answer. For the six months it

had taken to put that answer together, he'd simply had to be patient. It

hadn't been easy, but it had made the next one all the more sweet.





He wasn't about to give up on that sweet and secret pleasure just

because Shaz Bowman had thought she was smarter than him. All it would

take was a little bit of planning.





Jacko closed his eyes and considered.





Carol took a deep breath and knocked on the door. A familiar voice told

her to come in and she walked into Jim Pendlebury's office as if there

had never been a moment's tension between them. "Morning, Jim," she

said briskly.





"Carol," he said. "Come with some news for me?"





She sat down opposite him, shaking her head. "I've come for the list of

part-time firemen we spoke about last night."





His eyes widened. "You're not still entertaining that daft idea in the

cold light of morning?" he said scornfully. "I thought you must just

be humouring your guest."





"When it comes to criminal investigation, I'd back Tony Hill's ideas

over yours any time."





"You expect me to sit back and help you turn my men into scapegoats?" he

said, his voice low. "When they're the ones who stand at risk every

time we get a call-out?"





Carol sighed in vexation. "I'm trying to put an end to that risk. Not

just for your firefighters, but for the poor sods like Tim Coughlan who

don't even know they're taking a chance. Don't you understand that?





This isn't a witch-hunt. I'm not out to frame the innocent. If you

think that's what I'm about, then you certainly don't know enough about

me to have the right to turn up at my home unannounced and uninvited and

expect to cross the threshold ever again,"

Long seconds dragged past while they stared each other down. Finally,

Pendlebury shook his head in resignation, his mouth a thin line. "I'll

give you the list," he said, loathing every word. "But you won't find

your arsonist on it."





"I hope not," she said calmly. "I know you don't believe me, but I

don't want this to be one of yours, any more than I enjoy the prospect

of uncovering police corruption. It undermines all of us. But I can't

ignore the possibility now it's been pointed out to me so convincingly."





He turned away and walked his chair over to a filing cabinet. He pulled

out the bottom drawer and took out a sheet of paper. With a flick of

the wrist, he floated it across the desk to her. All it contained were

the names, addresses and telephone numbers of Seaford's twelve part-time

fire officers.





"Thank you," Carol said. "I appreciate this." She half-turned to go,

then looked back as if struck by an afterthought. "One thing, Jim.





These fires. Do they all come under one division or are they more

spread out?"





He pursed his lips. "They're all on Seaford Central's patch. If they

hadn't been, you wouldn't be walking out the door with that bit of

paper."





It confirmed what she'd already thought. "I figured it might be

something like that," she said, her voice offering armistice. "Believe

me, Jim, there'd be nobody happier than me if all your lads check out."





He looked away. "They will do. I know those lads. I've trusted my

life to them. Your psychologist he knows nothing about it."





Carol walked to the door. As she opened it, she looked back. He was

staring intensely at her. "We'll see, Jim."





The steel-capped heels of her brown boots clattered on the stairs as she

ran down to the anonymous security of her car. The pain of Jim

Pendlebury's conviction that she would scapegoat a fellow member of the

emergency services cut deep. "Damn it," Carol said, slamming the door

closed behind her and jabbing the key angrily at the ignition. "Damn it

all to hell."





Working on the principle that any psychologist worth his salt would see

straight through any attempts at manipulation, they'd clearly decided to

dispense with finesse. They had, however, paid Tony the compliment of

rank. Detective Chief Superintendent Mccormick and Detective Inspector

Colin Wharton rubbed shoulders at the narrow table in the interview

room. The tape was running. They hadn't even bothered with the

spurious reassurance that it was for his benefit.





They'd run through the discovery of the body first, their questions

clearly directed at tripping him up in his assertion that he'd never

been to Shaz's flat before and had no idea which windows were hers. Now

they were moving into areas for which there was less obvious

justification. Tony was not unprepared. He'd fully expected to be

given a hard time. For one thing, he wasn't actually a cop, so if they

were looking for a scapegoat, he'd be a preferable choice





to one of his team. Add to that the local force's resentment at having

to hand over space and resources to a bunch of outsiders led by a Home

Office boffin they regarded as one step away from a leader of Satanic

rituals, and he was inevitably on a hiding to nothing. With this in

mind, he'd been running alternative scenarios on the projection screen

inside his head almost before his eyes had opened. Concern about the

interview had preoccupied him through breakfast, in spite of Carol's

best efforts to reassure him that it would be no more than routine.





On the train back to Leeds he had stared out of the window without

registering anything except that he had to find a way to convince his

interrogators that they should be looking outside Shaz's circle of

friends and colleagues for whoever had done this to her. Now he was

faced with the reality, he wished he'd caught a train to London instead.





Already the muscles in his shoulders were cramped into tight knots. He

could actually feel the creeping rigidity climbing up the back of his

neck and into his scalp. He was going to have one hell of a headache.





"Take us right back to the beginning," Mccormick said brusquely.





"When did you first meet DC Bowman?" Wharton demanded. At least they

weren't playing ' cop, nasty cop'. They were both comfortably

displaying their true colours as oppressive aggressors.





"Commander Bishop and I interviewed her in London about eight weeks ago.





The exact date is in our office diary." His voice was blank and even,

kept so by willpower alone. Only a Voice Stress Analyser could have

detected the micro-tremors skittering beneath the surface. Luckily for

Tony, the technology hadn't penetrated that far.





"You interviewed her together?" Mccormick with the question this time.





"Yes. Following the interview, Commander Bishop withdrew and I

administered some psychological tests. Then DC Bowman left and I did

not see her again until the start of the task force's training period."





"How long were you alone with Bowman?" Mccormick again. Wharton was

leaning back in his seat, fixing Tony with a professional blend of

speculation, contempt and suspicion.





"It takes about an hour to carry out the tests."





"Long enough to get to know somebody, then."





Tony shook his head. "There's no time for casual conversation. In

fact, that would be counter-productive. We were aiming to keep the

selection process as objective as possible."





"And the decision to take Bowman on the squad was unanimous?"





Tony hesitated for a moment. If they hadn't already talked to Paul

Bishop, they would. There was no point in any diversion from the truth.





"Paul had some reservations. He thought she was too intense. I argued

that we needed some diversity on the team. So he agreed to Shaz and I

conceded on one of his choices that I was less enthusiastic about."





"Which one was that?" Mccormick asked.





Tony was too smart to walk into that one. "You'd better ask Paul about

that."





Wharton suddenly leaned forward, thrusting his heavy blunt features

towards Tony. "Find her attractive, did you?"





"What kind of question is that?"





"About as straightforward as you can get. Yes or no. Did you find the

lass attractive? Did you fancy her?"





Tony paused momentarily, assembling his careful response. "I registered

that her looks would have made her appealing to a lot of men, yes. I

was not myself sexually attracted to her."





Wharton sneered. "How could you tell? From what I've heard, you don't

respond like most red-blooded blokes, do you?"





Tony flinched as if he'd been struck. A tremor ran through his taut

muscles and his stomach grew turbulent. The inquiry that had inevitably

followed the case he'd worked with Carol Jordan the year before had had

to be told of his sexual problems. He had been promised absolute

confidentiality, and if the reactions of the police officers he had

encountered since were anything to go by, he had been granted that. Now,

overnight, Shaz Bowman's death seemed to have stripped him of that

right. He wondered momentarily where they'd gained their information,

hoping this didn't mean his impotence would now be common gossip. "My

relationship with Shaz Bowman was purely professional," he said, forcing

his voice to stay calm. "My personal life has nothing to do with this

inquiry whatsoever."





"That's for us to decide," Mccormick stated baldly.





Without pausing, Wharton continued. "You say your relationship was

purely professional. But we have statements that indicate you `=190' spent

more time with Bowman than you did with other members of the squad.





Officers would arrive of a morning to find the two of you deep in

conversation. She would stay behind at the end of group sessions for a

word in private. A very close relationship seems to have sprung up

between you."





"There was nothing untoward between Shaz and me. I've always been an

early starter in the morning. Check it out with anyone who's ever

worked with me. Shaz was having some problems mastering the computer

software we're using so she came in beforehand to put in some extra

time. And yes, she did stay behind after group sessions with questions,

but that was because she was fascinated with the work, not for any seedy

ulterior motive. If your murder inquiry had taught you anything at all

about Shaz Bowman, you'd know the only thing she was in love with was

the Job." He took a deep breath.





There was a long moment's silence. Then Mccormick said, "Where were you

on Saturday?"





Tony shook his head, mystified. "You're wasting your time with this.





You should be using us to catch the killer, not trying to make it look

like one of us is guilty. We should be talking about the meaning of

what this killer did to Shaz, why he left the picture of the three wise

monkeys on the body, why there was no sexual interference with the body

nor any forensic traces."





Mccormick's eyes narrowed. "I'm interested that you're so definite

about the absence of forensic traces. Now how would you happen to know

that?"





Tony groaned. "I don't know it. But I did see the body and the scene

of crime. From my experience of psychopathic killers, I reckoned it was

the most likely scenario."





"A police officer or someone who works closely with the police would

recognize the significance of forensic evidence," Mccormick said

cannily.





"Everybody who has a TV set or who can read recognizes the significance

of forensic evidence," Tony countered.





"But they don't all know how to erase all traces of their presence like

people who are accustomed to watching SO COs avoiding the contamination

of evidence at a crime scene, do they?"





"So you're saying there was no forensic evidence?" Tony challenged,

latching on to the one piece of information that seemed significant.





"I didn't say that, no," Mccormick retorted triumphantly.





"Whoever killed Sharon Bowman probably thinks they didn't leave a trace.





But they'd be wrong."





Tony's mind raced. It couldn't be finger or shoe prints; that would be

completely at odds with the organized precision of this killer. It

might be hairs or fibres. Hair would only be useful if they had a

serious suspect to match it against. Fibres, on the other hand, could

be tracked down by a forensic expert. He hoped West Yorkshire used the

best. "Good," was all he said. Mccormick scowled.





Wharton opened a folder and placed a sheet of paper in front of Tony.





"For the tape, I am showing Dr. Hill a photostat of DC Bowman's diary

for the week of her death. There are two entries for the day she was

murdered. JV, nine thirty. And the letter T. I put it to you, Dr.

Hill, that you had arranged to meet Shaz Bowman on Saturday. That you

did in fact meet her on Saturday."





Tony ran a hand through his hair. The confirmation of Carol's idea that

Shaz would have confronted Vance with what she knew gave him no

satisfaction. "Inspector, I made no such arrangement. The last time I

saw Shaz alive was at the end of the working day on Friday. What I was

doing on Saturday could not be less relevant to this inquiry."





Mccormick leaned forward and spoke softly. ''m not so sure about that.





"I for Tony. She could have been meeting you. She could have met you

out of office hours away from the squad room, and the boyfriend could

have found out about it and let it wind him up. Maybe he confronted her

with it and she admitted she fancied you more than she fancied him?"





Tony's lip twitched in contempt. "Is that the best you can come up

with? That's pathetic, Mccormick. I've had patients who came up with

more credible fantasies. Surely you must recognize that the crucial

thing here is the diary entry that says JV, nine thirty? Shaz may have

intended talking to me after that interview, but she never made it. If

you're interested in what the killer was doing on Saturday, you really

should be checking out Jacko Vance and his entourage." As soon as the

name was out of his mouth, Tony knew he'd blown it. Mccormick shook his

head pityingly and Wharton jumped to his feet, his chair shrieking on

the cheap vinyl flooring.





"Jacko Vance tries to save lives, not take them. You're the one with

the track record here," Wharton shouted. "You've already killed

somebody, haven't you, Dr. Hill? And as you psychologists are always

telling us, once the taboo's breached, it's gone for good.





Once a killer ... Fill in the blanks, Doctor. Fill in the fucking

blanks."





Tony closed his eyes. His chest hurt, as if a punch to the diaphragm

had robbed him of air. All the progress he'd made over the past year

was stripped away and again he smelled sweat and blood, felt them slick

on his hands, heard the screams ripped from his own throat, tasted the

Judas kiss. His eyes snapped open and he looked at Wharton and

Mccormick with a hatred he'd forgotten he was capable of. That's it,"

he said, standing up. "Next time you want to talk to me, you'll have to

arrest me. And you'd better make sure my lawyer's on the premises when

you do."





Only his desire not to give them the satisfaction held him together as

he marched out of the interview room, through the police station and out

into the fresh air. No one made any move to stop him. He set off

across the car park, desperate to make it to the street before his

stomach lost its battle with breakfast. Just as he reached the kerb, a

car pulled up beside him and the passenger window descended. Simon

Mcneill's dark head loomed towards him. "Want a lift?"





Tony recoiled as if from a blow. "No ... I ... No thanks."





"Come on," Simon urged. "I've been waiting for you. They kept me in

half the night. They'll try and pin this on me given half a chance. We

need to find out who killed Shaz before they decide it's time to make an

arrest."





Tony leaned into the car. "Simon, listen very carefully to me. You're

right that they want it to be one of us. I'm not sure they'd go so far

as to manufacture evidence against anybody. But I don't intend to sit

back and wait and see if that happens. I intend to find out who's

behind this, and I can't have you along. It's dangerous enough going up

against a man who's capable of what this guy did to Shaz. It'll be hard

enough for me to watch my own back without having to watch yours as

well. You might be a great detective, but when it comes to going head

to head with psychopaths like this, you're an absolute beginner. So do

us both a favour. Please. Go home. Deal with your loss. Don't try to

be a hero, Simon. I don't want to bury another one of you."





Simon looked as if he wanted to burst into tears and thump Tony. "I'm

no: a child. I'm a trained detective. I've worked on murder squads. I

cared about her. You can't shut me out. You can't stop me nailing this

bastard."





A long sigh. "No, I can't. But Shaz was a trained detective. She'd

worked on murders. She knew she was rattling a killer's cage. And she

still got demolished. Not just killed, but annihilated. It's not

conventional police methods that are going to sort this out, Simon. I've

done this once before. Believe me, I know what it's like and I wouldn't

wish it on another living soul. Go home, Simon."





With a screech of rubber on asphalt, Simon's car streaked away from the

kerb. Tony watched it take the next left far too fast, the rear spoiler

fishtailing out of sight. He hoped it would be the biggest risk Simon

had to take until Shaz's killer was dealt with. He knew a traffic

accident would be the least of his own worries.





There was something to be said for delirium. When feverish sweat ran

down her face and added another layer to the sour staleness that covered

her sticky skin, it meant she could escape into hallucinations that were

infinitely preferable to reality.





Donna Doyle lay huddled against the wall, holding on to the chimeras of

childhood memory as if they could somehow save her. One year, her mum

and dad had taken her to the Valentine Fair at Leeds. Candyfloss, hot

dogs and onions, the blurry kaleidoscope of lights on the waltzer, the

sparkling jeweller's window of the city spread beneath her from the top

of the Ferris wheel as they swung gently in the cold night air, the neon

glow of the fair like a carpet at their feet.





Her dad had won her a big teddy bear, electric pink fun fur with a goofy

grin stitched across its white face. It had been the last present he'd

given her before he died. It was all his fault, Donna thought,

snivelling. If he hadn't gone and died, none of this would have

happened. They wouldn't have been poor and she wouldn't have had to

think about being a telly star, she could have listened to her mum and

stuck in at school and gone to university.





Tears crept out of the corners of her eyes and she beat her left fist

against the wall. "I hate you," she cried, screaming at the wavering

image of a thin-faced man who had adored his daughter. "I hate you, you

bastard!"





At least the incoherent sobs tired her out, letting her consciousness

slide mercifully from her again.





The brashness that characterized Leon's performance among his peers was

gone. Instead, he was locked behind the blank insolent face he'd seen

on too many young blacks, both in custody and on the street. His

street. He might have the warrant card that said he was one of them,

but he had enough smarts to know that the two Yorkshiremen sitting

across the interview room table were still The Man.





"So, Leon," Wharton was saying in seemingly expansive mode, ' you're

telling us squares with what we've already heard from DC Hallam. The

pair of you met at four o'clock and went tenpin bowling. Then you went

for a drink in the Cardigan Arms, after which you met Simon Mcneill for

a curry." He smiled encouragingly.





"So neither of you two killed Shaz Bowman," Mccormick said. Leon had

him figured for a racist, his pink slab of a face showing no rapport,

his eyes hard and cold, his wet mouth permanently a mere twitch away

from a sneer.





"None of us killed Shaz, man," Leon said, deliberately drawing out the

last word. "She was one of us. Maybe we've not been a team for long,

but we know how to stick together. You're wasting your time on us."





"We've got to go through the motions, lad, you know that," Wharton said.





"You're going to be a profiler, you know that over ninety per cent of

murders are committed by families or lovers. Now, when Simon turned up,

how did he seem?"





"I don't know what you mean."





"OK. Did he seem agitated, wound up, in a state?"





Leon shook his head. "None of that, no. He was a bit quiet, but zoo





I put that down to Shaz not being there. I reckoned he fancied her, and

he was disappointed when she didn't show."





"What made you think he fancied her?"





Leon spread his hands. "Stuff. You know? The way he tried to impress

her. The way he was always checking her out. The way he'd always be

bringing her into the conversation. The way a man does when he's

interested, know what I mean?"





"Did you think she was interested in him?"





"I don't reckon Shaz was too interested in anybody. Not in the shagging

sense. She was too obsessed with the Job to be bothered with it, if you

ask me. I don't think Simon was going to drop lucky and get his leg

over. Not unless he had something she wanted bad, like the inside track

on a serial killer."





"Did he say he'd been round her house?" Mccormick interjected.





"He never mentioned it, no. But you wouldn't, would you? I mean, if

you thought a woman had just stood you up, you wouldn't be telling

people about it. Not saying anything isn't strange behaviour. Saying

something, setting yourself up for having the piss taken out of you all

round the squad room, now that would be strange." Leon lit a cigarette

and gave Mccormick the blank-eyed stare again.





"What was he wearing?" Wharton asked.





Leon frowned with the effort of recollection. "Leather jacket, bottle

green polo shirt, black jeans, black Docs."





"Not a flannel shirt?"





Leon shook his head. "Not when we met him. Why? You found some

flannel fibres on her clothes?"





"Not her clothes," Wharton said. "We think she was'





"I don't think we'll be going into details about the forensic evidence

just now," Mccormick interrupted firmly. "Weren't you worried when DC

Bowman didn't show up for this big night out?"





Leon shrugged and blew out a stream of smoke. "Not worried, no. Kay

figured she'd got a better offer. Me, I thought she probably had her

head in her computer, doing her homework."





"Bit of a teacher's pet, was she?" Wharton asked, sympathy to the fore

again.





"Nah. She was just a grafter, that's all. Look, shouldn't you be out

there catclvng the bastard who did this, instead of wasting your time

with us? You're not going to find her killer in the task force. We

signed up to solve shit like this, not commit it, man."





Wharton nodded. "So the sooner we get this over, the better. We need

your help here, Leon. You're a trained detective, but you've also got

trained instincts, or else you wouldn't be on this task force. Give us

the benefit of your insights. What do you make of Tony Hill? I mean,

you do know that he didn't want you on the task force, don't you?"





Tony stared at the dark blue screen. Mccormick and Wharton might have

barred him from the task squad offices, but either they didn't know

about the group's networked computer system or they had no idea how to

exclude him from it. The set-up was straightforward. It had to be; the

people using it were less computer literate than the average

seven-year-old. All the PCs in the office were linked via a central

processing and storage unit. A modem connection made it possible for

any of the team who was working off site to plug straight into their

personal data store as well as any of the general material that was

available to everyone. For security reasons, they each had personal lo

gins as well as individual passwords. The trainees had all been

instructed to change their passwords weekly to avoid possible leaks.





Whether any of them bothered was a moot point.





What none of the squad knew was that Tony had a list of every individual

login. In effect, he could dial up the office computer and pretend to

be any of them, with the machine none the wiser. Of course, without the

password, he wouldn't get very far with the private material, but he'd

be in the system.





As soon as he'd returned home from his interview, he'd switched on his

home computer. First, he'd called up Shaz's application form and test

responses, all scanned in as soon as she'd been accepted for the squad.





He printed them out, along with the progress reports that both he and

Paul Bishop had compiled.





Then he signed off as himself and signed in as Shaz. Now, the best part

of two hours and a pot of coffee later, he was no further forward. He'd

tried everything he could think of. SHAZ, SHARON,

BOWMAN, ROBIN, HOOD, WILLIAM, TELL, ARCHER,

AM BRIDGE ... He'd run through every character he could think of from

the eponymous radio soap opera. He'd tried her parents' names, every

town, city, institution and street name mentioned in her CV. He'd even

attempted the obvious JACKO, VANCE and the less obvious MICKY, MORGAN.





And still he was staring at a screen





that said, "Welcome to the National Offender Profiling Task Force.





Please type in your password now: -'. The cursor had been flashing so

long the only thing he could say with total certainty was that he had no

epileptic tendencies.





He stood up and prowled round the room. He didn't have an idea to bless

himself with. "Enough," he muttered in exasperation. He lifted his

jacket from the chair where he'd thrown it and shrugged it on. A walk

down to the shop for the evening paper, that might clear his head.





"Don't fool yourself," he muttered as he opened his front door. "You

just want to see what those pillocks have told the latest press

conference."





He walked down the path bisecting two flower beds where grimy rose

bushes fought a rear guard action against urban enemies both human and

industrial. As he turned into the street, he noticed a couple of men in

a nondescript saloon car opposite. One was scrambling out of the

passenger seat to the accompaniment of the engine being

over-enthusiastically started. Shocked, Tony recognized all the

hallmarks of an amateurish stakeout. Surely they couldn't be wasting

their human resources keeping tabs on him?





At the corner, he stopped to look in the window of Bric'n'Brac, a junk

shop with sad pretensions. Its proud owner kept the glass clean, which

allowed Tony to take a look over his shoulder and across the street. The

man who'd jumped out of the car was over there, loitering by the bus

stop, pretending to read the timetable. It was an activity that marked

him out as a stranger more than almost anything else could have done;

the locals knew the anarchic practices of the rival bus companies too

well to regard the timetable as anything other than a bad joke.





Tony walked on to the corner. Under the cloak of crossing the road, he

threw a look over his shoulder. The car had turned round and was

creeping down his street about fifty yards behind him. There was no

doubt about it. If these were the best the local force had to offer,

Shaz Bowman's killer didn't have much to worry about.





Despairing of his supposed colleagues, Tony bought an evening paper from

the local news agent and walked slowly home, reading as he went. At

least the police weren't publicly saying anything to attract ridicule.





In fact, they weren't saying anything much at all. Either they were

playing things very close to their chest, or they had nothing to play

with. He knew which he believed was the case.





Once inside, under the guise of drawing a curtain across to protect his

computer screen from the bright sun, he checked for his watchers. They

were both back in the car, parked in the same spot as before. What were

they waiting for? What did they expect him to do?





If it wasn't so appalling in its potential consequences, it would be

funny, he thought as he grabbed the phone and dialled Paul Bishop's

mobile. When Bishop answered, Tony dived straight in. "Paul? You're

not going to believe this. Mccormick and Wharton have got it into their

heads that someone connected to the task force killed Shaz, since we're

the only people up here she knew."





"I know," Bishop said, sounding depressed. "But what can I do? It's

their inquiry. If it makes you feel any better, I do know they've been

in touch with her old division, asking them to check out if there were

any villains down there who might have had enough of a grudge against

her to follow her up here. So far, no joy. But her old CID sergeant

has apparently been in touch to say she acted as intermediary to set up

a meeting between Jacko Vance and Bowman on Saturday morning. It looks

as if she was determined to pursue that wild idea of hers about the

teenage girls."





Tony let out a sigh of relief. "Well, thank God for that. Now maybe

they'll begin to take us seriously. I mean, they have to be asking at

the very least why Vance hasn't come forward and revealed this himself,

given that Shaz's picture has been all over the papers."





"It's not quite that simple," Bishop said. "Vance's wife actually rang

in within minutes of the other call to say Bowman had come to the house

on Saturday morning. She said her husband hadn't seen the papers yet.





So no one's actually hiding anything."





"But they are at least going to talk to him?"





"I'm sure they will."





"So they'll have to treat him as a suspect."





Tony heard Bishop exhale. "Who knows? The trouble is, Tony, I can make

gentle suggestions, but I've no authority to stop them running this

their own sweet way."





"I was told that you'd agreed with them that the squad should

effectively be suspended," Tony pointed out. "You didn't have to go

along with that, surely."





"Come on, Tony, you know how difficult the politics of the task force

are. The Home -Office is adamant that we don't cause problems on the

ground. It was a small concession. The squad hasn't been disbanded.





Nobody's being reassigned to their old units. We're just out of the

operational loop until this case is either resolved or out of the

headlines. Try and treat it like a sabbatical."





Exasperated, Tony got to the initial point of his call. "It's a pretty

strange sabbatical that includes a stakeout straight out of the Keystone

Cops on my doorstep."





"You're joking?"





"I wish I was. I walked out of my interview with them this morning

after they accused me of being their best bet because I'm already a

killer. And now I've got Beavis and Butthead on my tail. This is

intolerable, Paul."





He could hear Bishop take a deep breath. "I agree, but we're just going

to have to roll with the punches until they get bored with us and start

running a proper investigation."





"I don't think so, Paul," Tony said, his voice clipped and

authoritative. "One of my team is dead and they won't let us help find

out who killed her. They're quick enough to remind me that I'm not one

of them, I'm an outsider. Well, that cuts both ways. If you can't

persuade them to get out of my face, I will be holding a press

conference of my own tomorrow. And I promise, you won't like it any

more than Wharton and Mccormick will. It's time to pull some strings,

Paul."





"I hear you, Tony," Bishop sighed. "Leave it with me."





Tony dropped the phone back into its cradle and pulled the curtain back.





He switched on his desk lamp and stood in front of the window staring

mutinously out at his watchers. He reviewed the information Paul Bishop

had given him and related it to what he had learned at the crime scene.





This killer was angry because Shaz had stuck her nose into his business.





That indicated that she had been right in her supposition that there was

at large a serial killer of teenage girls. Something she had done had

panicked the murderer into making her his next target. The only thing

she had apparently done that was connected to her theory was to visit

Jacko Vance within hours of her death.





He knew now that Shaz Bowman's killer could not be some crazed fan of

Vance's. There was no way for even the most dedicated stalker to find

out in the short interval before her murder who Shaz was or the reason

for her visit to Vance's house.





He had to find out more about the encounter between Shaz and





Vance. If the killer was one of his entourage, it was possible he'd

been present. But if Vance had been alone when Shaz confronted him, the

finger pointed only at him. Even if he'd picked up the phone the minute

she'd left and reported her suspicions to someone else, there was no way

such a third party could have picked up Shaz's trail, discovered where

she lived, or persuaded her to open her door to him in the time

available.





As he reached this conclusion, his watchers departed. Tony threw his

jacket down and dropped like a stone into the chair facing the screen.





It was a small victory, but it renewed his appetite for the struggle.





Now he had to find the proof to demonstrate that Shaz had been right and

it had killed her. What would Shaz Bowman have used as a password? A

fictional hero? Warshawski and Scar-petta were too long. KINSEY, MILL

HONE MORSE, WEXFORD, DALZIEL, HOLMES, MARPLE, POi ROT all failed. A

fictional villain? MORI ARTY HANNIBAL, LECTER. Still nothing.





Normally, the sound of a car pulling up outside wouldn't have penetrated

his concentration. But after the day he'd had, the stilling of the

engine sounded louder than an alarm buzzer. He looked out and his heart

sank again. The last three people he wanted to see piled out of a

familiar scarlet Ford. Mob-handed, Leon Jackson, Kay Hallam and Simon

Mcneill crowded up the path, sheepishly acknowledging his scowl through

the window. With a groan, he got up and unlocked the door, turning

straight on his heel and walking back down the hall to his study.





They followed him, crowding into the small room and, without waiting to

be asked, finding places to settle; Simon on the window sill, Leon

leaning elegantly against a filing cupboard, Kay in the armchair in the

opposite corner. Tony swivelled round in his chair and glared, trying

not to acknowledge the resignation he felt. "Now I understand why

people confess to crimes they haven't committed," he said, only

half-joking. They were impressive in spite of their youth and their

uncertainty.





"You wouldn't take me seriously, so I brought in reinforcements," Simon

said. He looked too pale to be conscious, Tony registered, noticing for

the first time a dusting of freckles across the bridge of his nose.





"That Mccormick and Wharton, they've got it in for us," Leon burst out.





"I've been in there all afternoon, with them doing kissy faces, "Come

on, Leon, you can tell us what you really think about





Tony Hill and Simon Mcneill." Man, they are two sick fuckers, let me

tell you. "Mcneill fancied Bowman, but she was in love with Hill, so he

killed her out of jealousy, what do you reckon? Or Hill wanted to get

into Bowman's knickers but she was more interested in a date with

Mcneill and he killed her in a fit of jealous rage." More bullshit than

a farmyard, made me sick." He pulled his cigarettes out, then paused.





"Is this OK?"





Tony nodded, pointing to a lopsided Christmas cactus on a shelf. "Just

use the saucer."





Kay leaned forward in her chair, elbows on knees. "It's like they can't

see past the end of their noses. And while they're trying to find

evidence against you, they're not looking anywhere else. Least of all

at what Shaz was digging into. They think her theory about a serial

killer preying on teenagers is the sort of stupid thing us girls come up

with because we've got our hormones in a twist. Well, we figured that

if they won't do what needs to be done, we better had."





"Do I get a word in edgeways?" Tony said.





"Be our guest," Leon said, with an expansive gesture.





"I appreciate how you feel. And it does you credit. But this isn't a

classroom exercise. It's not, "Five Go Hunting a Psychopath." This is

the most dangerous game, in both senses of the word. The last time I

got involved with a serial killer, it nearly cost me my own life. And,

with great respect to your talents as police officers, I knew a hell of

a lot more than all three of you rolled into one. I'm not prepared to

take the responsibility of having you working with me off the books." He

ran a hand through his hair.





"We know it's the real thing, Tony," Kay protested. "And we know you're

the best. That's why we've come to you. But we can do stuff you can't.





We've got warrant cards. You don't. Strange cops only trust other

cops. They won't trust you."





"So if you won't help us, we'll just have to do the best we can without

you," Simon said, his mouth set in a stubborn line.





The shrill insistence of the phone came as a relief. Tony's hand closed

over the receiver. "Hello?" he said cautiously, eyeing the other three

as if they were an unexploded bomb.





"It's me," Carol said. "I just called to see how you'd got on."





"I'd rather tell you face to face," he said briskly.





"You can't talk just now?"





"I'm in the middle of something. Can we meet later?"





"My cottage? Half past six?"





"Better make it seven," he said. "I've got a lot to do here before I

can get away."





"I'll be there. Safe journey."





"Thanks." He gently replaced the phone. He closed his eyes

momentarily. He hadn't realized how isolated he'd been feeling. It was

the existence of police officers like Carol, and the stubborn belief

that one day they'd be in the majority, that made his job bearable. He

opened his eyes again to find the three junior members of his squad

staring avidly at him. The ghost of an idea was taking shape at the

back of his mind. "What about the other two?" he stalled. "Saw sense,

did they?"





Leon breathed smoke. "Got no bottle. They're frightened to rock the

boat in case their promotion prospects get drowned."





"Who gives a shit about promotion when someone like Shaz gets killed and

nobody cares enough to catch the killer? Who'd want to be a copper on

that kind of force?" Simon spat.





"I'm sorry," Tony said. "The answer's still no."





"Fine," Kay said. Her smile could have cut steak. "In that case, we'll

move on to Plan B. The sit-in. We're staying on your case till you come

on board. Where you go, we go. Twenty-four hours a day. Three of us,

one of you."





"Not good odds." Leon lit a fresh cigarette while the embers of the

previous stub still glowed.





Tony sighed. "OK. You won't listen to me. Maybe you'll listen to

somebody who really knows the score."





The dashboard clock said it was just after seven; the radio played the

theme from The Archers, revealing the clock was three minutes slow.





Tony's car bounced up the rough track from the road, his suspension

giving its age away. He rounded the last bend and saw with satisfaction

that the lights were on in Carol's cottage.





She was framed in the doorway as he closed the car door behind himself.





He couldn't remember the last time he'd felt so glad to be walking into

someone else's company, someone else's territory. The only sign that

his companions were completely unexpected was the slight lift of her

eyebrows.





"Kettle's on, beer's cold," she greeted them, offering Tony a gentle

squeeze of the arm. "Is this your bodyguard?"





"Not as such. I am currently being held hostage," he said drily,

following her indoors. His squad didn't wait for an invitation. They

were right there on his heels. "You remember Kay, Leon and Simon?





They're going to hang round my neck like millstones until I agree to

work with them on uncovering who killed Shaz." In the living room, he

gestured with his thumb towards the sofa and chairs. The threesome sat.





"I was hoping you would help me talk them out of it."





Carol shook her head, acting bemused. "They want to work with you on a

live case? God, the rumour mill must have deteriorated one hell of a

lot recently."





"Coffee first," Tony said, lifting a hand and placing it lightly on her

shoulder, steering her towards the kitchen.





"Coming up."





He closed the door behind them. "I'm sorry for landing you with this.





But they wouldn't listen to me. The problem is that West Yorkshire are

acting like Simon's the prime suspect and I'm a close second. And this

lot are not going to lie down and take that. But you know what it's

like when you're working a serial killer case and it gets personal. They

don't have the experience to handle this. Vance or someone close to him

has already killed the best and brightest of them. I don't want any

more deaths on my conscience."





Carol spooned coffee into the filter and switched it on as he spoke.





"You're absolutely right," she said. "However ... unless I misjudge

them completely, they're going to pursue this anyway. The best way to

make sure you don't lose another one is to take control. And the way to

do that is to work with them. Set them all the drudge jobs, the

runaround background inquiries that baby detectives cut their teeth on.





Anything dodgy, anything we think is dangerous or needs expert

interrogation techniques, we'll sort out."





'"We?"





Carol clapped the palm of her hand to her forehead and grimaced. "Why

do I feel like I've just been suckered?" She punched his arm. "Put

some sugar and milk and mugs on a tray and take it through before I get

seriously cross."





He did as he was told, feeling strangely gratified that he had moved

from the Lone Ranger to team captain in the space of a few hours. By

the time Carol brought the coffee through, he'd shared the new deal vdth

a self-satisfied team.





He opened his laptop on the stripped pine dining table, jacked the modem

into the phone line, and plugged the transformer into the nearest power

point. As the others arranged themselves so they could see the screen,

Carol asked Tony, "How bad was the interview?"





"I walked out in the end," he said succinctly as he watched the machine

boot up. "It was what you might call hostile. When it comes to, "Hey,

lads, hey," they don't really think I'm on the same side, you see. But

they're saving the prime suspect slot for Simon. He had the bad luck to

get Shaz to agree to a date on the very night she was killed. But I'm

probably second favourite in the book that some smart-arse on the murder

team will be running." He looked up and Carol could see the hurt behind

the assumed self-possession.





"Stupid bastards," Carol said, putting his mug of coffee next to the

computer. "But then, they are Yorkshiremen. I can't believe they're

not using you lot."





Leon gave a bark of mirthless laughter. "Tell us about it. You let

people smoke in here?"





Carol glanced at him, taking in the fingers beating a silent tattoo on

his thigh. Better that the tobacco combusted than he did. "You'll find

a saucer in the cupboard above the kettle," she said. "Only in this

room, please." As he left, she took over his chair and settled down

next to Tony, watching the screen change as his fingers hit the keys.





Tony worked his way into the task force computer system with Shaz's

login. He pointed to the flashing cursor. This is what I've been

racking my brains over all afternoon. I can get on to the system as

Shaz, but I can't figure out her password." He ran through the attempts

he'd made, ticking the categories off on his fingers. Leon, Kay and

Simon started throwing out their own suggestions based on what they knew

of their late colleague.





Carol listened carefully, left hand teasing the tendrils of blonde hair

on the back of her neck. When Tony and the other three had run out of

steam and ideas, she said, "Missed the obvious, didn't you? Who did

Shaz look up to? What did she want to be?"





"Running Scotland Yard? You think I should try famous Met Commissioners





Carol reached over and pulled the laptop within touch-typing range.





"Famous profilers." She typed in RESSLER, DOUGLAS, LEYTON. Nothing

happened. A rueful quirk of the lips, then she typed TONY HILL The

screen went momentarily blank, then a menu appeared. "Fuck, I wish I'd

taken a bet on it," she said wryly. Around





her, the trainee profilers applauded, Leon wolf-whistling and whooping.





Tony shook his head, astonished. "What do I have to do to get you on

the national squad?" he asked. "You're wasted in ordinary CID work at

your rank. All that admin when you should be harnessing that

inspiration to catch pychopaths."





"Right," Carol said sarcastically, pushing the laptop back towards him.





"If I'm so good, how come I didn't work out that my arsonist was a

crook, not a crazy?"





"Because you were working alone. That's never the best way to operate

when you're dealing with psychological analysis. I think profilers

should work in pairs, detective and psychologist, complementary skills."





He took the cursor down to the





"File directory' option and hit ENTER.





The quality of their meeting of minds was not a conversation Carol

wanted to have, especially not in company as sharp as the present one.





Deftly, she moved the subject forward, bringing Leon, Kay and Simon up

to speed with Tony's theory that the arsonist was a part-time fireman

with a conventional criminal motive.





"But what is the motive?" Kay asked. "That's the important bit, isn't

it?"





"If it's criminal, you always want to know who benefits," Leon pointed

out. "And since there's no common ownership or insurance, maybe it's

somebody high up in the fire service who doesn't want any more

cutbacks."





Tony looked up from the file names he was scrolling through. "Nice

idea," he said. "Devious, though. And as a proponent of Occam's Razor,

I'm going to go for the most straightforward theory. Debt," he said and

turned his eyes back to the screen.





"Debt?" Carol's voice was full of doubt.





"That's right." He swung round to face her. "Somebody who owes money

all over the place, somebody with a credit rating that's fallen through

the floor. His house has been repossessed or it's on the point of it,

he's got a stack of county court judgements against him and he's robbing

Peter to pay Paul."





"But a night call out is, what? Fifty, a hundred quid max, depending on

how long they're out there? You surely don't think somebody would put

his liberty, his mates' lives, at risk for that sort of cash!" Simon

protested.





Tony shrugged. "If you're up against the wall, perpetually juggling zn

creditors, an extra hundred quid a week can make all the difference to

staying in one piece and having your legs broken, your car snatched,

your electricity cut off, the bank putting you into bankruptcy. You pay

twenty quid off one debt, fifty off another, a tenner here, a fiver

there. You show willing. It keeps everybody off your back. The courts

are reluctant to take drastic steps if you can show you're really

trying. Any sensible person knows that it's only postponing the evil

hour, but when you're in debt up to your eyeballs, you stop thinking

straight. You get into this self-deluding fantasy that if you can just

get over this hump, you'll be heading towards getting straight again.





Nobody cons themselves better than a bad debtor. I've seen pathetic

idiots who owe the best part of twenty grand to a loan shark still

employing a cleaning lady and a gardener because getting rid of them

would be an admission that their lives were totally out of control. Look

for somebody who's teetering on the brink of insolvency, Carol."





Already back in communion with the computer screen, he muttered, "Let me

see ... MISPER. OOI. That'll be the report she did for the squad,

wouldn't you think?"





"Seems likely. And MISPERJV. OOI could be her Jacko Vance inquiries."





"Let's take a look." Tony opened the file. Shaz's words spilled down

the screen, giving him a strange sense of communing with the dead. It

was as if those extraordinary blue eyes were hovering behind his head,

fixing him with their inexorable stare. "My God," he whispered. "She

wasn't playing games."





Leon peered over his shoulder. "Fuck," he breathed. "You fucking

witch, Shazza." It summed up everyone's feelings perfectly as they

stared at Shaz's briefing from beyond the grave.





ORGANIZED OFFENDER CHECKLIST





Jacko Vance





Re: MIS PER cluster





High birth order Only child.





Father's work stable





Civil engineer often away from home for prolonged periods on long-term

contracts.





Absent father See above.





Parental discipline perceived as inconsistent





See above; also, mother appears to have suffered postnatal depression,

rejected JV and later treated v. strictly.





Higher than average IQ





Regarded as bright by teachers but never did as well as expected

academically; poor exam performer.





Skilled occupation, work history uneven





First as a champion javelin thrower then as TV presenter; perfectionist,

prone to temper tantrums and firing junior members of team; if not for

medal-winning prowess popularity with TV audience, would have lost

several contracts over the years because of arrogant and overbearing

behaviour.





Socially adept; may be gregarious and good talker, but can't connect

emotionally





See above; relates very well to members of the public on superficial

level; however, one of reasons why his marriage is perceived as so

successful is that he appears to have no intimate relationships with

either gender outside that relationship.





Living with partner





Wife, Micky, been together for twelve years. A very public marriage,

the golden couple of UK TV. However, often away from home both on

business and on extensive charity work.





Controlled mood during commission of crime Unknown: but Vance is known

in the business for coolness under pressure.





Use of alcohol or drugs during commission of crime Unknown. No history

of drink problem, some hint that there may have been a problem with

painkiller addiction following accident in which Vance lost his arm.





Mobile; car in good condition





Vance has a silver Mercedes convertible and a Land Rover. Both are

automatics and have been adapted for his disability.





Follows crimes in the media





He's perfectly placed to do this he has direct access to all areas of

the media. He numbers many journalists among his circle of

acquaintance.





Victims share common characteristics Yes see appendix A on original

cluster of seven victims.





Unsuspicious demeanour





Millions of people would trust him with their lives or their daughters.





In a poll four years ago, he was voted the third most trustworthy person

in Britain after the Queen and the Bishop of Liverpool.





Looks average





Impossible to comment objectively. The gloss of celebrity, grooming and

an expensive wardrobe makes it hard to judge beyond the facade.





Mental illness in immediate family





Nothing known; mother died eight years ago, cancer.





Alcohol or drugs problem in immediate family Nothing known.





Parents with criminal records Nothing known.





Emotional abuse





Mother reportedly told him he was ugly and clumsy, ' like your

father'. Mother appeared to blame him for his father's absences.





Sexually dysfunctional incapable of mature, consensual relationship with

another adult





Nothing to support this: marriage very public. No indications that MM

unhappy with marriage or has lover. ??? Check newspaper gossip columns

??? Check with uniforms on local patrol any signs ???





Cool, distant mother; very little touching or emotional warmth as child





Implied in both books.





Egocentric world view





All the evidence even from MM's adoring account -supports this.





Beaten as child





MM recalls him speaking of his father coming home from trip and

thrashing him for failing eleven-plus; otherwise, nothing known.





Witnessed sexually stressful situation as child, e.g. marital rape,

mother engaged in prostitution Nothing known





Parents separated in childhood or early adolescence Parents divorced

when he was twelve. According to MM book, his obsession with athletics

was bid to gain father's attention.





Autoerotic adolescence Nothing known.





Rape fantasies Nothing known.





Obsession with pornography Nothing known.





Voyeuristic tendencies





Nothing specific known; but of. Vance's Visits, the ultimate

poke-your-nose-in television.





Aware his sexual emotional relationships are abnormal and resents it

Nothing known.





Obsessive Attested to by work colleagues and rivals alike.





Irrational phobias Nothing known.





Chronic liar





Several instances of him '' past incidents; compare two books.





Initiating stress or





Jacko Vance's first girlfriend was Jillie Woodrow. He was unsuccessful

with girls before her, and by the time they got together, he was almost

sixteen and she was just fourteen. Apart from his obsessive sports

training, she was his only interest. They had a relationship that was

exclusive, compulsive and consuming. He appears to have been a

dominating influence upon her. They were engaged as soon as she turned

sixteen, opposed by her parents and his mother; he was no longer in

touch with his father by this time. After the accident when he lost his

arm, MM's account claims he set Jillie free since he was no longer the

man she'd contracted to marry; TB's version is that she had been looking

for a way out of the claustrophobic relationship for some time and fixed

on his accident as a way out, claiming she was repelled by his injury

and the prospect of living with a man with a prosthesis. MM and Vance

got together shortly afterwards. Just before they married, Jillie did a

'kiss and tell' with the News of the World revealing that Vance had

forced her to indulge in sadomasochistic rituals, tying her up to have

sex in spite of her protests that it frightened her. Vance tried to

prevent the story's publication, denying it vigorously. He failed to

get an injunction, but never sued for libel, claiming that he couldn't

afford the legal process. (Probably true at that stage in career.)

Either the end of the relationship with Jillie in such stressful

circumstances or her subsequent revelations could have been a powerful

enough stress or to trigger off the first in Vance's series of crimes.





"Oh, shit," Carol said as she reached the end of Shaz's analysis. "You

really have to wonder, don't you?"





"You think Jacko Vance could be a serial killer?" Kay asked.





"Shaz thought so. And I think she might have been right," Tony said

grimly.





"There's something bothering me about this," Simon said. Encouraged by

a questioning look from Tony he continued. "If Vance is a sociopath,

how come he saved those kids and tried to rescue that





lorry driver in the accident where he lost his arm? Why did he not just

leave them to it?"





"Good point," Tony said. "You know I hate to theorize ahead of the

data, but looking at what we know so far, I'd say Jacko spent most of

his formative years desperate for attention and approval. When the

accident happened, he automatically went down the road that would make

him look good in other people's eyes. It's not uncommon for what looks

like heroism to be a desperate craving for glory. I think that's what

happened there. If you still think we're barking up the wrong tree, let

me tell you about a conversation I had with Commander Bishop this

afternoon." He told them about Shaz's appointment with Vance and the

conclusions he'd drawn from that.





"You're going to have to let Mccormick and Wharton know about this

file," Carol said.





"I don't feel much like it, the way they treated me."





"You want them to put Shaz's killer away, don't you?"





"I want Shaz's killer put away," Tony said firmly. "I just don't think

those two have the imagination to deal with the information. Think

about it, Carol. If I tell them what we've found here, first off, they

won't want to believe it. They'll think we've tinkered with her files.





I can just imagine the interview with Vance. He slipped effortlessly

into the broad Yorkshire of his childhood. "A'right, Mr. Vance, we're

sorry to trouble that, but we think the lass here last Saturday thought

that were a serial killer. Daft, that knows, but seeing as ' she got

herself murdered that night, we thought we'd better come and ' a

word. "Appen that might've seen sum mat some weirdo following her,

like."





"They're not that bad, surely," Carol protested, spluttering with

laughter in spite of herself.





"You ask me, he's being generous," Leon muttered.





"They're not going to go in and interrogate Jacko Vance," Simon said.





"They're going to be overawed, they're going to be on his side. All

they'll do is mark his card."





"And Jack the Lad is a clever bastard," Tony continued. "Now he knows

they know about Shaz's visit, he'll be the biggest Goody Two Shoes on

legs. So there's part of me that thinks, no, don't tell them."





There was a long silence. Then Simon said, "So what now?"





Tony had taken a notepad from the laptop bag and Started sc





scribbling. "If we're going to do this, we've got to do it right.





Which means I act as controller and co-ordinator. Carol, is there a

local take away that delivers?"





She snorted with derision. "Out here? Do me a favour. There's bread,

cheese, salami, tuna, salad stuff. Give me a hand, team, we'll throw

some but ties together while our leader cogitates."





When they returned fifteen minutes later with mounds of sandwiches and a

mixing bowl filled with crisps, Tony was ready for them. Sprawled round

the room with bottles of beer and plates of food, they listened while he

explained what he wanted them to do.





"I think we're all agreed that on the balance of probabilities, Shaz was

killed because of the work she'd done since she came to Leeds. There's

no indication that she had any kind of personally threatening

experiences up to that point. So we take as our starting point the

assumption that Shaz Bowman correctly identified the existence of an as

yet unknown serial killer of teenage girls." He raised his eyebrows in

a question and noted four nods.





"The external connector in these cases concerned Jacko Vance. Shaz

assumed him to be the killer, though we shouldn't fail to consider that

our target could conceivably be someone in his entourage. Me, I'm

inclined to go for Vance."





"Good old Occam," Simon muttered wryly.





"Not just on the least complicated principle," Tony said. "My view is

coloured by the length of time these killings apparently cover. I don't

know if there's anyone who has been professionally close to Vance for

that long. Even if they had, I'm not convinced that they would have the

charisma to lure young women into what looks superficially like a

runaway bid.





"So, we've got Shaz's profile of Vance. It's inevitably superficial.





She only had access to what was in the public domain that she could get

her hands on readily. That seems to have consisted mainly of two

biographies, one written by his wife, the other by a showbiz hack. We

need to dig a lot deeper than that before we can check whether this man

is a serious possible for the series of killings we're postulating. This

is an unusual job for us profilers. Usually we're making deductions

from crime to offender. This time, we're going from putative offender

to hypothetical murders. I don't feel entirely confident about it, if

I'm honest. It's fresh territory for me. So we need to be very careful

before we put our heads anywhere near the parapet." More nods. Leon

stood up and moved across to the door





way so he could smoke without polluting everyone else's food.





"We get the message," Leon drawled. "Our missions, should we choose to

accept them, are ... ?"





"We need to track down his fiancee, Jillie Woodrow. The person

responsible for interviewing Jillie should also carry out a general

investigation into his early life family, neighbours, school friends,

teachers, any local bobbies still on the payroll or recently retired.





Simon, are you up for that?"





Simon looked apprehensive. "What exactly do I do?"





Tony signalled to Carol with his eyes. "Find out everything you

possibly can about Jacko," she said. "Deep background. If you want a

cover story for everyone except Jillie, say we're investigating threats

against him and we think the reason may lie deep in his past. People

love a bit of melodrama. With Jillie, that won't work. It might be

worth hinting that you're investigating allegations made against Jacko

by a prostitute, perhaps imply that you suspect they're malicious lies?"





"OK. Any ideas how I find her, given that I haven't got access to the





PNC?"





"I'll get to that in a minute," Tony said. "Leon, I want you to start

digging into what was going on in his life around the time of the

accident where he lost his arm. That and his early TV career. See if

you can find his old trainer, the first people he worked with when he

was starting out in sports' broadcasting. Athletes on the British team

with him, that sort of thing. OK?"





"Just watch me," Leon said, cold and serious for once. "You won't be

sorry you asked me, man."





"Kay, your job is to go round the parents of the girls Shaz identified

in her cluster and re-interview them. All the usual whisper stuff, plus

anything and everything you can pull out about Jacko Vance."





The local lads should be more than happy to hand off their case files to

you," Carol put in. "They'll be so delighted that somebody else is

prepared to take responsibility for such a no-hoper, they'll probably

give you the freedom of the nick."





"All of which DCI Jordan here will set up for you in advance," Tony

continued. "She will be your facilitator, the one who speaks to ranking

officers in other police stations around the country and gets you the

information that will kick-start your inquiries. Stuff like where

Jillie Woodrow is now, what happened to Vance's coach, which victim's

parents have moved to Scunthorpe."





Carol stared open-mouthed for a long moment. Leon, Simon and Kay looked

on with the delight of adolescents watching grown-ups on the verge of

behaving badly. "Fine," she eventually said, her voice loaded with

sarcasm. "I have so little to do at work, it'll be a pleasure fitting

it in. So, Tony, what are you going to be up to while the rest of the

squad are doing all the hard graft?"





He reached for a sandwich, checked the filling, then looked up with a

smile that appeared entirely free from guile. "I'm going to shake the

tree," he said.





Detective Inspector Colin Wharton looked like a refugee from one of

those dreadfully predictable gritty northern cops-and-robbers dramas

that the networks churned out to fill the gap between the late news and

bedtime, Micky thought. Once handsome in a craggy way, too much drink

and junk food had blurred his features and shrouded his blue eyes in

heavy pouches. She imagined him on a second marriage which would be in

trouble; the kids from his first marriage would be the teenagers from

hell; and he'd have a vague but worrying recurring pain somewhere in his

internal organs. She crossed her legs demurely and gave him the smile

that had reassured a thousand studio guests. She just knew he'd be a

complete sucker for it. Him and Detective Constable Sidekick, who

looked one step away from asking for her autograph.





She glanced at her watch. "Jacko should be back any minute. It'll be

the traffic. Same with Betsy. My personal assistant."





"You mentioned that," Wharton said. "If it's all the same to you, we

might as well get started. We can talk to Ms. Thorne and Mr. Vance when

they get here." He consulted a folder spread across his tightly

trousered lap. "I'm told you spoke to DC Bowman the day before she

died. How did that come about?"





"We've got two phone lines one for me and one for Jacko. They're

ex-directory, very private. Only a handful of people have the numbers.





I switch mine over to the mobile when I'm out and DC Bowman came through

on that. It must have been about half past eight on Friday morning I

was with one of my researchers at the time, she could probably confirm

that." Realizing she was wallowing in inconsequentiality, too obvious a

marker for nervousness, Micky paused for a moment.





"But it wasn't your researcher?" Wharton prompted her.





"No. It was a voice I didn't recognize. She said she was Detective





Constable Sharon Bowman from the Metropolitan Police and she wanted to

arrange an appointment with Jacko. My husband."





Wharton nodded encouragingly. "And you said?"





"I told her she'd come through on my line and she apologized and said

she'd been told this was his private number. She asked if he was there,

and when I said he was away she said could she leave a message. I don't

normally act as Jacko's secretary, but since she was with the police and

I didn't know what it was about, I thought it would be best just to make

a note of what she wanted and pass it on to him." She smiled, aiming

for the self-deprecating air of a woman unsure of herself faced with

authority. It was a blatant performance, but Wharton didn't seem to

notice.





"Sensible approach, Ms. Morgan," he said. "What was the message?"





"She said it was merely a formality, a routine matter, but she'd like to

interview him in connection with a case she was working on. Because of

her other commitments, she said it would have to be Saturday, but she'd

happily fit in with his arrangements. The time and place would be up to

him. And she left a number where he could get back to her."





"Do you still have that number?" Wharton asked, just another standard

question.





Micky picked up a notepad and held it out to him. "As you see, we start

a fresh page for each day. It's a catch-all phone messages, programme

ideas, domestic bits and pieces." She handed it over, pointing to a few

lines near the top of the page.





Wharton read, "Det. Con. Sharon Bowman. Jacko. iv ???Satur-day???





you name time + place. 307 4676 Sgt. Devine." That confirmed the

telephone statement Chris Devine had already given them, but Wharton

wanted to double-check. This number ... is it London?"





Micky nodded. "Yes. 0171. Same code as ours, that's why I didn't

bother writing it down. Well, it would be, wouldn't it? She was with

the Met."





"She was on secondment to a unit in Leeds," he said heavily. "That's

why she was living there, Ms. Morgan."





"Oh God, of course," she said hollowly. "Do you know, for some reason

that just hadn't registered. How odd."





"Indeed," Wharton said. "So, you passed the message on to your husband

and that was that?" he said.





"I left the message on his voice mail. He mentioned later that he'd

arranged for her to come to the house on Saturday morning. He knew I

wouldn't mind since Betsy and I were going off on Le Shuttle on a

freebie. Perks of the job." She gave him the full-beam smile again.





Wharton wondered sourly why the women in his life never managed to look

so gratified when they spoke to him.





Before he could ask the next question, he heard footfalls on the parquet

floor of the hall. He half-turned as the door opened behind him. His

first impression of Jacko Vance was a sense of tremendous energy

contained within expensive tailoring. There was something irresistibly

watch able about him, even doing something as banal as crossing the room

and extending his left hand in a gesture of welcome. "Inspector Wharton,

I presume," Vance said warmly, affecting not to notice the policeman's

fluster as he half-rose, reached out with the wrong hand then clumsily

shifted his papers and grabbed at the proffered hand in an awkward

shake. "I'm Jacko Vance," he said, pretending a humility Micky

recognized as false as her own. "Desperate business, this." Vance

turned away from the detective, nodding a friendly greeting at the

hovering constable and dropped on to the sofa next to his wife. He

patted her thigh. "All right, Micky?" His voice dripped the same

concern he always showed the terminally ill.





"We've just been going over DC Bowman's phone call," she said.





"Right. Sorry I'm late. Got held up in traffic in the West End," he

said, his mouth curling upwards in a familiar self-deprecating smile.





"So, what can I tell you, officer?"





"Ms. Morgan passed a message on to you from DC Bowman, is that right?"





"Absolutely," Vance said confidently. "I called the number she'd left

and spoke to a detective sergeant whose name I have completely

forgotten. I said that if DC Bowman came to the house on Saturday

morning between half past nine and noon, I would see her then."





"Very generous, a busy man like yourself," Wharton said.





Vance raised his eyebrows. "I always try to help the authorities when I

can. It didn't inconvenience me in any way. All I had planned for the

day was to catch up on some personal paperwork then drive up to my

cottage in Northumberland in time for an early night. I was running a

charity half-marathon at Sunderland on Sunday, you see." He leaned back

negligently, fully expecting his throwaway line to be noted, believed

and filed away in support of his innocence.





"What time did DC Bowman arrive?" Wharton asked.





Vance pulled a face and turned to Micky. "What time was it? You were

just leaving, weren't you?"





"That's right," she confirmed. "Must have been around half past nine.





Betsy could probably tell you more exactly. She's the only one in the

house with any sense of time." She smiled wryly, amazed at how ready

this policeman was to accept that two major TV personalities who

anchored key programmes couldn't measure time instinctively to the last

half-minute. "We more or less passed on the doorstep. Jacko was on the

phone upstairs, so I pointed her in here, and we were off."





"I didn't keep her waiting more than a couple of minutes," Vance

continued seamlessly. "She apologized for interrupting my weekend, but

I explained that in this job, we don't really have weekends. We take

time for ourselves when we can, don't we, darling?" He gazed adoringly

at her, slipping his arm round her shoulders.





"Not often enough," Micky sighed.





Wharton cleared his throat and said, "Can you tell me what it was DC

Bowman wanted to talk to you about?"





"You mean, you don't know?" Micky demanded, the dormant news reporter

inside her springing into action. "A police officer comes all the way

from Yorkshire to London to interview someone with as high a profile as

Jacko, and you don't know what it was in aid of?" She looked

astonished, leaning forward, forearms on thighs, hands spread open.





Wharton shifted in his seat and stared fixedly at a point on the wall

between the two long windows. "DC Bowman was attached to a new unit.





Strictly speaking, she should not have been on operational duties at

present. We think we know what she was working on, but as yet we have

no independent corroboration of that. It'd help us a lot if Mr. Vance

could just tell us what transpired between the two of them on Saturday

morning." He breathed out heavily through his nose and shot them a

quick look that mingled embarrassment and pleading.





"No problem," Vance said easily. "DC Bowman was very apologetic about

invading my privacy with her questions, but she said she was working on

a series of missing teenage girls. She thought they had been lured away

from home by the same individual. It appeared that some of these girls

had been at one of my public appearances shortly before they dropped out

of sight and she wondered if some nutter was targeting my fans. She

said she wanted to show me pictures of the girls, just in case I'd

noticed them talking to a particular person."





"One of your entourage, you mean?" Wharton prompted, proud of knowing

the right word.





Vance laughed, a rich baritone laugh. "I'm sorry to disappoint you,

Inspector, but I don't exactly have an entourage. When I'm doing the

programme, I have a team who work very closely with me. Sometimes when

I'm doing PAs public appearances, that is my producer or my researcher

will come along to keep me company and provide a bit of back-up. But

that apart, anything I spend on minders or whatever comes out of my

pocket. And since most of the work I do involves earning cash for

charities as well, it seems crazy to spend any more than is absolutely

necessary. So, as I explained to DC Bowman, there are no loyal

retainers. What there is, however, is a hard core of devotees. There

are, I suppose, a couple of dozen fans who turn up regularly at

virtually every event I do. Strange people, but I'd always considered

them harmless."





"It's a mark of celebrity," Micky said matter-of-factly. "If you don't

have your retinue of attendant weirdos, you're nobody. Badly dressed

men in anoraks and women in polyester slacks and acrylic car dies All

of them with dreadful haircuts. Not the sort your average teenage girl

would run off with, take it from me."





"Which is pretty much what I told DC Bowman," Vance continued. They

were so smooth, so natural, he thought. Maybe it was about time they

made some programmes together. He made a mental note to explore the

idea with his producer. "She showed me a few photographs of the girls

she was concerned about, but none of them rang any bells." His shrug

was disarming. "Not surprising. I can sign upwards of three hundred

autographs at a PA. Well, I say sign ... scrawl would be more like

it." He looked ruefully at his prosthetic hand. "Writing's one of the

many things I can't do properly any more."





There was a moment's silence. To Wharton it felt as long as Remembrance

Sunday. He searched around for a meaningful question. "How did DC

Bowman respond, sir? To your lack of recognition, I mean."





"She seemed disappointed," Vance said. "But she admitted it had always

been a long shot. I said I was sorry not to have been more





help, and she left. That must have been around ... oh, half past ten,

thereabouts?"





"So she was here for about an hour? That seems quite a long time for a

few questions," Wharton said, punctilious rather than suspicious.





"It does, doesn't it?" Vance agreed. "But I did keep her waiting a few

minutes, then I made us both some coffee, we did the usual small talk.





People always want to know behind-the-scenes gossip about Vance's

Visits. Then I had to go through all the photographs. I took my time.





Missing girls is too serious a subject to take lightly. I mean, no

contact with their families after all this time years, in some cases,

according to DC Bowman chances are they could have been murdered. It

merited my attention."





"Quite so, sir," Wharton said heavily, wishing he hadn't bothered

asking. "I don't suppose she mentioned any plans she might have for the

rest of the day?"





Vance shook his head. "Sorry, Inspector. I had the impression she had

another appointment, but she didn't say where or with whom."





"What gave you that impression, sir?" Wharton looked up, for the first

time feeling he might be doing more than going through the motions.





Vance frowned for a moment, as if thinking. "After I'd finished with

the photographs, I offered to make fresh coffee. But she looked at her

watch and seemed startled. As if she hadn't realized the time. She

said she had to be going, she'd no idea we'd been talking for so long.





She was out the door within minutes."





Wharton closed his notebook. "As I think I should be too, sir. I very

much appreciate both of you taking the time to talk to me. If there's

anything else, which I very much doubt, I'll be in touch." He rose and

gave his junior officer a ''s go' jerk of the head.





"You don't need to speak to Betsy?" Micky asked. "She shouldn't be

long."





"I don't think that'll be necessary," Wharton said. "Frankly, I think

DC Bowman's visit here was almost certainly nothing to do with her

death. We just have to tie up the loose ends."





Vance crossed to the door and opened it to usher them out. "A shame you

have to be dragged down here when the real work's waiting for you in

Yorkshire," he said, his sympathetic smile adding weight to the

commiseration in his voice.





Micky said goodbye and watched from the window as Vance saw the police

officers off the premises. She wasn't sure what her husband was hiding.





But she knew him well enough to know that what she had just heard was

only a distant relative of the truth, the whole truth and nothing but

the truth.





When he walked back into the room, she was leaning against the

fireplace. "Are you going to tell me what you didn't tell them?" she

asked, her eyes giving him the shrewd appraisal that could always

penetrate his glossy surface.





Vance grinned. "You're a witch, Micky. Yes, I'll tell you what I

didn't tell them. I did recognize one of the girls whose picture Bowman

showed me."





Micky's eyes widened. "You did? How come? Where from?"





"No need to panic," he said scornfully. "It's perfectly innocent. When

she went missing, her parents contacted us. Said she was my biggest

fan, blah, blah, blah, never missed a show, blah, blah, blah. Wanted us

to put out an appeal for her to contact them."





"And did you?"





"Course not. It wouldn't fit the format of the programme at all.





Somebody from the office sent them a sympathetic letter and we got one

of the tabloids to run a story saying, "Jacko begs runaway to phone

home"."





"So why didn't you tell Wharton? If you did something for the press,

there'll be cuttings somewhere! They could dig them out and then you'll

be in deep shit."





"How? They don't even know what Bowman was doing, which doesn't sound

like they've got her files, does it? Look, Mick, I never met the girl.





I never spoke to her. But if I tell DI Plod I recognized her ... shit,

Mick, you know the police are the leakiest sieve in town. Next thing

you know, it'll be





"Jacko in murder quiz" splashed all over the front

pages. No thanks. I can do without it. They can't connect me to a

single one of Bowman's runaways. The king of deniability, remember?"





Micky shook her head, admiring his chutzpah in spite of herself. "More

like Teflon Man," she said. "I've got to hand it to you, Jacko. When

it comes to playing the audience like a fiddle, even I can't hold a

candle to you."





He crossed to her and kissed her cheek. "Never try to bullshit a

bullshitter."





Carol walked next morning into her office to find her crew had

wrong-footed her by being there ahead of her. Tommy Taylor sprawled in

the chair opposite hers, legs wide apart to emphasize his masculinity.





Lee had the window cracked open, blowing his smoke out to join the

traffic fumes. Di was in her usual position leaning against the wall,

arms folded over her badly fitting suit. Carol itched to drag her

kicking and screaming to the January sales to kit the woman out in

clothes that would both fit and flatter her instead of the expensive and

nasty stuff she chose now.





Carol made straight for her bastion behind the desk, flipping open her

briefcase as she sat. "Right," she said. "Our serial arsonist."





"Crunchy nut corn flake Lee said.





"Actually, not," Carol said. "Apparently, our firebug is as sane as you

or me. Well, me, anyway, since I can't speak for you three. According

to a psychologist whose judgement I trust implicitly, we're not dealing

with a psychopath. The man who's setting these fires has a

straightforward criminal motive. And that points to Jim Pendlebury's

part-timers." The three stared at her as if she'd suddenly slipped into

Swedish.





"You what?" Lee managed to speak first.





Carol distributed copies of the list the fire chief had given her. "I

want deep background checks into these men. Particular attention to

financial details. And I don't want them to get so much as a sniff that

we're interested."





Tommy Taylor found his voice. "You're accusing firemen?"





"I think you'll find we're supposed to call them firefighters these

days," Carol said mildly. "I'm not accusing anybody yet, Sergeant. I'm

trying to gather enough information on which we can base a decision."





"Firemen die in fires," Di Earnshaw sniped mutinously. "They get

injured, they inhale smoke. Why would a fireman set fires? He'd have

to be a real sicko, and you just said this bloke isn't. Surely that's a

contradiction in terms?"





"He's not sick," Carol said firmly. "Desperate, maybe, but he's not

suffering from a mental illness. We're looking for someone who's so

deep in debt he's lost sight of anything except how to get out of it.





It's not that he wants to put his mates at risk; he's just not allowing

himself to include them in the equation."





Taylor shook his head sceptic ally





"It's a helluva slur on the fire

service," he protested.





"No more so than outside inquiries into allegations of police

corruption. And we all know that happens." Carol's voice was dry. She

shuffled the case papers back into her briefcase then looked up at them.





"You lot still here?"





Lee tossed his cigarette into the street below in an eloquent gesture

and pushed himself into a slouching walk to the door. "I'm on it," he

said.





Taylor stood up and ostentatiously rearranged the outward evidence of

his gender. "Aye," he said, following Lee and indicating to Di Earnshaw

that she should follow.





"Softly, softly," Carol said to the retreating backs.





If spines could speak, Di Earnshaw's would have uttered a fluent





"Fuck

off." The door closed behind them and Carol leaned back in her chair,

one hand massaging the tight knots at the base of her skull. It was

going to be a very long day.





Tony reached for the phone automatically, mumbling, "Tony Hill here, can

you hang on a minute," before finishing the sentence he was typing into

his computer. He looked at the receiver in his hand as if not quite

certain how it had arrived there. "Yes, sorry, Tony Hill speaking."





"This is DI Wharton." His voice was neutral.





"Why?" Tony asked.





"What?" Wharton stumbled, wrong-footed.





"I asked why you were calling. What's so strange about that?"





"Aye, right. Well, I'm calling out of courtesy," Wharton said with a

brusqueness that contradicted his words.





"That's novel."





"There's no need to get clever. My boss would have no problem with

bringing you in for another visit."





"He'd have to take that up with my lawyer. You've had your one free

shot. So what was this courtesy you wanted to extend me?"





"We had a telephone call from Micky Morgan, the TV presenter who, as you

may or may not know, is Mrs. Jacko Vance. She volunteered the

information that Bowman visited their house in London on Saturday

morning to interview her husband. So we took a trip down there and

spoke to Mr. Vance ourselves. And he's in the clear. Bowman might

have made a fool of herself in front of your little clique, but she

wasn't daft enough to repeat her nonsense to the man himself. Turns out

all she wanted to ask was if he'd seen





anybody at his events stalking these missing girls. And he hadn't. Not

surprising, when you consider how many faces pass his in a week. So you

see, Dr. Hill, he's clean. They came to us, we didn't go to them."





"And that's it? Jacko Vance told you he'd waved goodbye to Shaz Bowman

on the doorstep and that's good enough for you?"





"We've no reason to think otherwise," Wharton said stiffly.





"The last person to see her alive? Aren't they usually worth a look?"





"Not when they have no known connection to the victim, a reputation for

probity that's never been challenged and they said goodbye twelve hours

before the crime was committed," Wharton said, his voice laced with

acid. "Especially when they're a registered disabled, one-armed person

who's supposed to have overwhelmed a highly trained, able-bodied police

officer."





"Can I ask one question?"





"You can ask."





"Was there a witness to this interview or did Vance see Shaz alone?"





"His wife let her into the house, but she left them to it. Bowman saw

him alone. But that doesn't automatically mean he's lying, you know.





I've been in this game a long time. I can tell when folk are telling me

lies. Face it, Doctor, you're well off target. I can't say I blame you

for trying to divert us, but we're sticking with the people that she

knew."





"Thanks for letting me know." Not trusting himself to say more, Tony

dropped the phone back into its cradle. The blindness of the human

animal never ceased to amaze him. It wasn't that Wharton was a stupid

man; he was simply, in spite of years in the police service, conditioned

to the belief that men like Jacko Vance could not be violent criminals.





In a way, Wharton's call was what he had been waiting for. The police

could not avenge Shaz Bowman and vindicate his own work. It was up to

him now, and there was a mordant satisfaction in that. Besides,

Wharton's answer to his question had confirmed Vance as prime suspect in

Tony's eyes. It had to be him. Tony had already eliminated a psychotic

fan; now he could eliminate the members of Vance's entourage. If no one

else had witnessed the interview, no one else could have picked up

Shaz's trail after she left the house.





Picking up the phone again, Tony called the number he'd





obtained earlier from Directory Enquiries, anticipating this moment.





When the switchboard answered, he said, "Can you put me through to the

Midday with Morgan production office?" Then he leaned back to wait, a

grim little smile curving his lips.





John Brandon fiddled with the handle of his coffee cup. "I don't like

it, Carol," he admitted. She opened her mouth to respond and he lifted

a finger to silence her. "Oh, I know you're no more fond of the idea

than I am. It's still a big step, pointing the finger at the fire

service. I only hope we're not making a terrible mistake here."





Tony Hill's been right before," she reminded him. "And when you look at

his analysis, it makes sense the way nothing else does."





Brandon shook his head despairingly, looking more like a world-weary

undertaker than ever. "I know. It's such a depressing thought, though.





To put so many lives at risk for so little. At least when coppers go

bent, people don't usually end up dead." He sipped his coffee. The

aroma wafted across the desk to Carol, making her mouth water. Normally

he offered her a cup; it was a measure of how shocked he was by her

report that she wasn't sharing the fragrant brew. "Ah well," he said.





"Keep me informed of what your team comes up with. I'd appreciate

advance notice of an arrest."





"No problem. There was one other thing, sir?"





"Was that the bad news or the good news?"





"I think it was the bad news. Depending on what you think of the other

matter, sir." Carol's smile held no cheer.





The Chief Constable sighed and half-turned in his swivel chair to stare

out across the estuary. As usual, the boss had the best view, Carol

thought irrelevantly as an ocean-going trawler slid from one window to

the next. "Let's hear it, then," he said.





"It also concerns Tony Hill," she said. "You know about the murder on

his squad?"





"Hellish business," Brandon said accurately. "The worst thing that can

happen in this job is losing an officer. But losing one like that ...

It's your biggest nightmare."





"Especially if you've got memories like Tony Hill's to draw on."





"You're not wrong." He looked shrewdly across at her. "Apart from our

natural compassion, how does this engage us?"





"Officially, not at all."





"But unofficially?"





"Tony's having some problems with West Yorkshire. They appear





to be treating him and his profiling trainees as their principal

suspects instead of an effective resource. Tony feels they've dismissed

other avenues for arbitrary reasons, and he's determined that Shaz

Bowman's killer shouldn't escape simply because the investigating

officers are taking a blinkered approach."





A smile escaped and spread across Brandon's face. "Those his words?"





Carol's answering smile was comp licit





"Not verbatim, sir. I didn't

take a contemporaneous note."





"I can see why he feels the need to take action," Brandon said

cautiously. "Any investigator would have the same reaction. But we

have rules in the police service that prevent officers investigating

crimes where they have a personal interest. Those rules exist for the

very good reason that crimes close to home distort an officer's

judgement. Are you sure it wouldn't be best to let West Yorkshire get

on with this in their own way?"





"Not if it means leaving a psychopath on the streets," Carol said

firmly. "There's nothing wrong that I can see with the way Tony's

mind's working."





"You still haven't explained what this has to do with us."





"He needs help. He's working with some of his task force officers, but

they're all currently on suspension, so they don't have access to any

official channels. Plus he needs input from an experienced police

officer to counterbalance his viewpoint. He can't get that from West

Yorkshire. All they want to do is find a reason to stick him or one of

his team behind bars."





"They never wanted to host that unit in the first place," Brandon said.





"It's not surprising they see this as an excuse to shoot it down in

flames. Nevertheless, it is their case and they're not looking to us

for assistance."





"No, but Tony is. And I feel I owe him, sir. All I'd be doing is a

little background digging to provide his team with raw materials like

names and addresses. I intend to give him what help I can. I'd prefer

to do it with your blessing."





"When you say help ... ?"





"I won't be treading on West Yorkshire's heels. The angle Tony's

interested in is miles away from their inquiries. They won't know I'm

there. I'm not going to drop you in a jurisdictional wrangle."





Brandon swallowed the last of his coffee and pushed the cup away from

him. "Damn right, you're not. Carol, do what you've got to do. But

you're doing it off the books. This conversation never happened, and if

it all comes on top, I never met you before." She grinned and got to

her feet. "Thank you, sir."





"Stay out of trouble, Chief Inspector," he

said gruffly, dismissing her with a flutter of his fingers. As she

opened the door to leave, he added, "If you need my help, you have my

number."





It was a promise Carol hoped she'd never have to collect on.





Sunderland was the furthest north, Exmouth the most southerly point. In

between were Swindon, Grantham, Tamworth, Wigan and Halifax. In each

place, a teenage girl's disappearance had snagged Shaz Bowman's

attention. Kay Hallam knew that somehow she had to squeeze fresh juice

from those investigations that would shore up the edifice of

circumstantial evidence Tony was building against Jacko Vance. It

wasn't an easy assignment. Years had passed and with them the sharpness

of memory. Doing it single-handed wasn't the best option either. In an

ideal world, there would be two of them, taking a couple of weeks to

complete the task, conducting interviews with brains that weren't

exhausted from driving the length and breadth of the country.





No such luxury. Not that she wanted to hang around. Whoever had killed

Shaz didn't deserve a minute longer at liberty than they'd already had.





It was tough enough sitting on her hands while she waited for the

results of DCI Jordan hammering the phones. Now there was a role model,

Kay thought as she prowled from room to room of her terraced Victorian

artisan's cottage. Whatever Carol Jordan had done, she'd obviously done

it right. "If you want to be successful, hang around with successful

people and copy what they do," Kay recited, a familiar mantra from one

of her American self-improvement tapes.





The call came at lunchtime. Carol had spoken to all of the CID

divisions who had dealt with the missing girls. In three cases, she'd

even managed to contact the investigating officer, though investigation

was probably too exalted a word for the cursory inquiries into missing

teenage girls who didn't appear to want to be found. She had arranged

for Kay to survey the slender files, and she'd contrived to elicit

addresses and phone numbers for the distraught parents.





Kay put the phone down and studied a road atlas. She reckoned she could

do Halifax in the afternoon and Wigan that evening.





Then down the motorway to the Midlands and an overnight motel. Breakfast

at Tamworth then hammer down to Exmouth for late afternoon. Back up the

motorway to overnight at Swindon, then cross-country to Grantham. A

stop the following day in Leeds to report to Tony, then she could finish

off in Sunderland. It sounded like the road movie from hell. Even

Thelma and Louise got it more glamorous than this, she thought.





But then, unlike some of her colleagues, she'd never expected it to be

glamorous. Hard graft, job security and a decent pay cheque were all

Kay had ever supposed she'd get from the police. The gratification of

detective work had come as a surprise. And she was good at it, thanks

to an eye for detail that her less appreciative colleagues called anal.





Profiling seemed like the ideal area for using her observational skills

to the full. She hadn't imagined her first case would be so close to

home, or how personal it would feel. Nobody deserved what Shaz Bowman

had endured, and nobody deserved to get away with it.





That was the thought Kay held on to as she hacked her way round the

network of motor ways that crisscrossed England. She noticed that all

of her destinations were either close by one of those motor ways or to

one of the other major arterial roads peppered with fast-food joints

tacked on to petrol stations. She wondered if there were any

significance in that. Did Vance arrange to meet his victims at service

areas they could easily scrounge a lift to? It was almost the only

fresh thing to come out of two days' work, she thought grimly. That and

the faintest ghostly glimmering of a pattern. But the stories of the

parents were depressingly similar, and distressingly short on

significant detail, certainly where Vance was concerned. She'd managed

to talk to a couple of friends of missing girls, and they'd been

scarcely more helpful. It wasn't that they didn't want to help; Kay was

the sort of interviewer people always talked to. Her mousey

insignificance belied her intelligence; she was no threat to women and

made men feel protective. No, it wasn't that they were holding back, it

was simply that there wasn't much to be said. Yes, the missing girls

were daft on Jacko, yes, they'd been to events where he was present and

yes, they were really excited about it. But nothing more than that

flimsy gleaning.





By Grantham, she was operating on automatic pilot. Two nights in motels

with the beds too soft and the constant high zip, zing and zoom of

all-night traffic diluted but not deleted by double glazing





was no recipe for a productive interview, but it was better than no

sleep at all, she scolded herself as she yawned expansively before

ringing the doorbell.





Kenny and Denise Burton didn't seem to notice her exhaustion. It had

been two years, seven months and three days since Stacey had walked out

of the front door and never returned and the shadows under their eyes

indicated neither had had a decent night's sleep since. They were like

twins; both short, burly with pale, indoor skin and puffy fingers.





Looking at the wall of photographs of their slim, bright-eyed daughter,

it was hard to believe in genetics as a science. They sat in a living

room that was a monument to the expression ' place for everything and

everything in its place'. There were a lot of places in the cramped

room; corner display cabinets, alcoves shelved to accommodate

knickknacks without number, a feature fireplace with built-in niches. It

was a claustrophobic, timidly conventional room. With the two bars of

the electric fire throwing out dusty heat, Kay could hardly breathe. It

was no wonder Stacey hadn't been reluctant to leave.





"She was a lovely girl," Denise said wistfully. It was a refrain Kay

had come to hate, hiding as it did every useful element of an adolescent

girl's personality. It also reminded her discouragingly of her own

mother, forever obliterating the reality of Kay's identity behind the

anodyne phrase.





"Not like some," Kenny said darkly, smoothing his greying hair back over

the bald patch threatening to burst through like a cartoon bump on the

head. "She was told to be in by ten, by ten she'd be in."





"She'd never have gone off of her own free will," Denise said, the next

line in the litany perfectly timed, perfectly placed. "She had no

reason to. She must have been abducted. There's no other explanation."





Kay avoided the painfully obvious one. "I'd like to ask some questions

about the days before Stacey disappeared," she said. "Apart from going

to school, did she go out at all that week?"





Kenny and Denise didn't pause for thought. In counterpoint, they said,

"She went to the pictures."





"With Kerry."





"The weekend before she was taken."





"Tom Cruise."





"She loves Tom Cruise." The defiant present tense.





"She went out on the Monday as well."





"We wouldn't normally allow her out on a school night."





"But this was special."





"Jacko Vance."





"Her hero, he is."





"Opening a fun pub in town, he was."





"We wouldn't normally have allowed her into a pub."





"What with her only being fourteen."





"But Kerry's mum was taking them, so we thought it would be all right."





"And it was."





"She was home right on time, right when Kerry's mum said they'd be."





"Full of it, our Stacey was. She got a signed photo."





"Personally signed. To her personally."





"She had that with her. When she went." There was a pause while Kenny

and Denise swallowed their grief.





Kay took advantage. "How did she seem after their night out?"





"She was very excited, wasn't she, Kenny? It was like a dream come true

to her, talking to Jacko Vance."





"She actually got to talk to him?" Kay forced herself to sound

nonchalant. The faint pattern she'd discerned was growing stronger with

each interview.





"Like a moonstruck calf she was, after," Stacey's father confirmed.





"She'd always wanted to go on the television." The counterpoint was

back.





"Your people reckoned she'd run off to London to try and break into

showbiz," Kenny said contemptuously. "No way. Not Stacey. She was far

too sensible. She agreed with us. Stay at school, get her A-levels,

then we'd see."





"She could have been on the television," Denise wistful now.





"She had the looks."





Kay cut in before they could get off and running again. "Did she say

what she'd talked about with Jacko Vance?"





"Just that he was really friendly," Denise said. "I don't think he said

anything in particular to her, did he, Kenny?"





"He hasn't got time to take a personal interest. A busy man. Dozens of

people, no, hundreds of people want him to sign an autograph, exchange a

few words, pose for a picture."





The words hung in the air like the afterimage of sparklers. "Pose for a

picture?" Kay said faintly. "Did Stacey have her picture taken with

him?"





They nodded in sync. "Kerry's mum took it."





"Could I see it?" Kay's heart was suddenly thudding like a drum, her

palms sweating in the stuffy room.





Kenny pulled an embossed album from under a coffee table stained a

colour unknown in nature. With practised hand, he turned swiftly to the

last page. There, blown up to ten by eight was a fuzzy snapshot of a

cluster of people surrounding Jacko Vance. The angle was skewed, the

faces blurred, as if seen through a heat haze. But the girl standing

next to Jacko Vance, the one he was unquestionably talking to, his hand

on her shoulder, his head inclined towards her, the girl looking up with

the adoring look of a new puppy was without a shadow of a doubt Stacey

Burton.





It had been harder than Wharton had expected to talk to Detective

Sergeant Chris Devine. When he'd rung her office, he'd discovered she'd

signed up for a couple of days' compassionate leave following her

initial telephone statement to the murder inquiry. It was the first

time Wharton had encountered anyone who seemed to be genuinely grieving

for Shaz Bowman; he'd not been the officer charged with breaking the

news to her devastated parents.





By the time Chris had returned the message on her answering machine,

Wharton was already in London interviewing Vance and his wife. It had

been easy to arrange to meet at her flat afterwards.





The hard-nosed copper in him had warmed to Chris Devine immediately

she'd opened her door and greeted them with, "I sincerely hope you're

going to nail the bastard who did this." He wasn't bothered by the

array of artistic photographs of beautiful women that covered the walls

of her flat. He'd worked with dykes before and on balance he thought

they were a damn sight less disruptive than most of the straight women

on the force. His sidekick was less sanguine, carefully choosing to sit

facing the wall of glass that looked out from the modern block of flats

to the ancient church left incongruously standing at the heart of the

Barbican complex.





"I hope so, too," he'd said, perching on the lumpy futon sofa and

wondering fleetingly how people ever slept on the things.





"You've been to see Jacko Vance?" Chris said almost before she was

settled in the big wing chair opposite him.





"We interviewed him and his wife yesterday. He confirmed what you'd

already told us about the appointment DC Bowman kept with him on the day

she died."





She nodded, pushing her thick chestnut hair away from her face. "I had

Vance down as the type that would keep a note of everything."





"So what was all that about?" Wharton asked. "Why were you helping DC

Bowman maintain the illusion that she was a Met officer?"





The frown line between her eyes deepened. "I'm sorry?"





"Your direct line in the CID office was left as a contact number for DC

Bowman. The impression it gave was that she was still a Met officer."





"She was still a Met officer," Chris pointed out. "But there was

nothing sinister in giving my number as a contact. During their

training period, the profiling squad officers can't take phone calls in

working hours. Shaz asked if I'd sort it, that's all."





"Why you, Sergeant? Why not the desk officer where she was stationed?





Why not leave her home number and ask him to call in the evening?" There

was nothing hostile in Wharton's manner; he was genuinely interested in

the answer.





"I suppose because we were already in contact over the case," Chris

said, feeling irritation rise inside her but giving no outward sign. Her

years in the police had left her with the tendency to see innuendo in

everything and the ability not to show her reaction.





"You were? In what respect?"





Chris's turned her head and her dark eyes looked over Wharton's shoulder

to the sky beyond. "She'd already asked for my help. She needed some

newspapers photocopied and I went out to Colindale to do it for her."





"You were responsible for that parcel?"





"I was, yes."





"I've heard about that. Must have been hundreds of pages, box that size

and weight. That's a lot of work for an officer as busy as you must

be," Wharton said, starting to lean a little now he suspected there

might be more going on here than met the eye.





"I did it in my own time. OK, Inspector?"





"That's a lot of time to give up for a junior officer," Wharton

suggested.





Chris's mouth tightened momentarily. With her snub nose, she had more

than a passing resemblance to Grumpy from the Seven Dwarves. "Shaz and

I were partners on the night shift for a long





time. We were friends as well as colleagues. She was probably the most

talented young officer I've ever worked with and frankly, Mr. Wharton, I

don't see how questioning why I was happy to give up my day off to help

her is going to help you put her killer away." Wharton shrugged.





"Background. You never know."





"I know, believe me. You should be

asking about Jacko Vance." In spite of himself, Wharton couldn't help

an ironic grin. "Don't tell me you fell for that as well?"





"If you mean, do I go along with Shaz's theory that Jacko Vance was

killing teenage girls, the answer is, I don't know. I've not had the

chance to review her evidence. But what I do know is that Vance

arranged with me that she should come to his house early on Saturday and

she was dead by the next morning. Now, the way we work things down here

is we get very interested in the last known person to see a murder

victim alive, and according to Shaz's mum, you don't seem to have any

record of anyone seeing her after she left Vance's house. That would

make me very interested in Jacko Vance. What are the profiling squad

saying about it?"





"I'm sure you'll appreciate that until we can conclusively rule out her

immediate colleagues from our inquiries, we can't use them to

investigate the case."





Chris's mouth fell open. "You're not using Tony Hill?"





"We think she

may have known her killer, and the only people she knew in Leeds were

the ones she was working with. You're an experienced detective. You

must see that we can't risk contaminating the inquiry by taking any of

them into our confidence."





"You've got the most talented profiler in the country in the palm of

your hand, a man who actually knew the victim and knew what she was

working on, and you're ignoring him? Is there some reason you don't

want to catch Shaz's killer? I bet Tony Hill doesn't think you should

be letting Jacko Vance off the hook."





Wharton smiled indulgently. "I can understand you getting a bit

emotional about this case." Chris seethed inside but said nothing as he

continued. "But I can assure you, I've spoken to Mr. Vance and there's

nothing to suggest that he had anything to do with the murder. According

to him, all DC Bowman was interested in was whether he'd spotted any of

her so-called cluster of missing girls in the company of any regular

attenders at his events. He said he hadn't and that was that."





"And you take his word for it? Just like that?"





Wharton shrugged. "Like I said, why wouldn't we? Where's the '

to suggest anything suspicious?"





Chris stood up abruptly and picked up a packet of cigarettes from a

corner table. She lit up and turned back to face Wharton. "He is the

last person that we know who saw her," she said, her voice harsh.





Wharton's smile was meant to placate but only enraged. "We don't know

that, with respect. She'd written the letter





"T" in her diary beneath

the appointment with Vance. As if she was going on somewhere else. You

wouldn't know who





"T" is, would you, Sergeant?"





A deep inhalation of smoke, a long exhalation, then Chris said, "I can't

think of anyone. Sorry."





"You don't think it might refer to Tony Hill?"





She shrugged. "It could, I suppose. It could mean almost anything. She

could have been going to the Trocadero to play laser games, for all I

know. She never said anything about any other plans to me."





"She didn't come here?"





Chris frowned. "Why would she?"





"You said you were friends. She was in London. I'd have thought she'd

have popped in, especially with you being so helpful and all." There

was a tougher element in Wharton's voice and his jaw thrust outward.





"She didn't come here." Chris's mouth clamped shut.





Sensing a weak spot, Wharton pushed harder. "Why was that, Sergeant?





Did she prefer to keep a bit of distance between you? Especially now

she'd got herself a boyfriend?"





Chris walked briskly to the door and opened it. "Goodbye, Inspector

Wharton."





"That's a very interesting response, Sergeant Devine," Wharton said,

taking his time getting to his feet and checking that his junior officer

was still taking notes.





"If you want to insult Shaz's memory and my intelligence, you're not

doing it in my home. Next time, make it formal. Sir." She leaned

against the door, watching them walk down the hall to the lifts.





"Arsehole," she muttered under her breath. Then she let the heavy door

swing shut and crossed to the phone where she rang an old flame in the

Home Office. "Dee? It's Chris. Hey, doll, I need a





favour. You've got a psychologist on the payroll, geezer called Tony

Hill. I need a personal number ... "





Jimmy Linden had noticed the young black man even before he'd reached

his seat in the sixth row of the empty stand. Years of working with

promising young athletes had developed his instinct for spotting

strangers. It wasn't only sex perverts you had to be on the lookout

for. The drug pushers were just as dangerous with their promises of

steroid magic. And Jimmy's youngsters were the very ones most prone to

falling for their promises. Anyone who wanted to be the best at

javelin, hammer, shot or discus needed the kind of muscle that anabolic

steroids could provide a lot more easily than training.





No, it never hurt to keep a weather eye out for strangers, especially

here at Meadowbank Stadium where he coached the Scottish junior squad,

the pick of the bunch, all of them desperate for that edge that would

make them a champion. Jimmy looked up again at the stranger. He looked

in pretty good shape, though if he'd ever had dreams of being a

contender, he should have knocked those fags on the head a long time

ago.





As the session drew to a close and the young athletes climbed into their

track suits Jimmy spotted the stranger getting up and disappearing down

the stairway. When he emerged trackside moments later, demonstrating he

had some official reason for being there, Jimmy felt the muscles in the

back of his neck relax slightly, the first sign he'd had that they'd

been tense. Old age was creeping up at a gallop, he thought wryly. Used

to be he was that close to his body that not a nerve fluttered without

him knowing about it.





Before he could follow the sweating bodies into the changing rooms, the

stranger stepped in front of him and flashed a warrant card. It was too

fast for Jimmy to suss which force he belonged to, but he knew what the

card was. "Detective Constable Jackson," the man said. "I'm sorry to

bother you at work, but I could use half an hour of your time."





Jimmy tutted, his whippet face narrowing in displeasure. "You'll not

find any drugs with this lot," he said. "I run a clean team, and they

all know it."





Leon shook his head and smiled. "It's nothing to do with your squad. I

just need to pick your brains about some ancient history,

that's all." There was no trace of the smart-mouthed jive talk he used

on his fellow profilers.





"What kind of ancient history?"





Leon noticed Jimmy's eyes flickering after his disciples and realized

the trainer still had things he wanted to say to them. Hastily, he

said, "It's nothing to worry about, honestly. Look, I noticed a

half-decent cafe just down the road. Why don't you meet me there when

you're done here and we can have a chat?"





"Aye, OK," Jimmy said grudgingly. Half an hour later he was facing Leon

over a mug of tea and a plate piled with the sort of bakery products

that earned Scotland its nickname of the Land O'Cakes. He must be one

hell of a coach, Leon thought as the little man wolfed down a

coconut-covered snowball. All the successful throwing jocks Leon had

ever known were big blokes, broad in the shoulder and heavy through the

thighs. But Jimmy Linden resembled a medieval ascetic, the classic

long-distance runner, one of those creatures of bone and sinew who

stride easily across the finishing line at marathons, eyes on the middle

distance, looking as if the only thing they could want was the next

twenty-six miles.





"So what's this all about?" Jimmy said, wiping his mouth with

surprising daintiness on a proper monogrammed cotton handkerchief pulled

from the sleeve of his sweatshirt.





"For reasons that will become obvious, I can't go into too much detail.





We're investigating a case that may have its roots deep in the past. I

thought you might be able to give me some pointers."





"About what? All I know anything about is athletics, son."





Leon nodded and watched a meringue disappear. "I'm going back now a

dozen or more years ago."





"When I was based down south? Before I came back up here?"





"That's right. You coached Jacko Vance," Leon said.





A shadow passed across Jimmy's face. Then he cocked his head to one

side and said, "You're not telling me somebody's putting the black on

Jacko and thinking they'll get away with it?" Amusement lit up his

watery blue eyes.





Leon winked. "You didn't hear that from me, Mr. Linden."





"It's Jimmy, son, everybody calls me Jimmy. So, Jacko Vance, eh? What

can I tell you about the boy wonder?"





"Anything you can remember."





"How long have you got?"





Leon's smile was tinged with grimness. He hadn't forgotten why





he was in Edinburgh. "As long as it takes, Jimmy."





"Let me see. He won the British under-fifteen title when he was only

thirteen. I was coaching the national squad at the time and I said as

soon as I saw him throw that he was the best chance of an Olympic gold





that we'd had in a generation." He shook his head. "I wasn't wrong.





Poor bugger. Nobody deserves to watch the event they should be winning

when they're trying to learn how to use an artificial limb." Leon

understood the implied but unspoken, ' even Jacko Vance'.





"He never considered doing the disabled games?" Leon asked.





Jimmy snorted derisively. "Jacko? That would have meant admitting he

was disabled."





"So you became his coach when he was thirteen?"





"That's right. He was a worker, I'll say that for him. He was lucky,

living in London, because he had good access to me and to the

facilities, and by Christ, he made the most of it. I used to ask him,

did he not have a home to go to?"





"And what did he say to that?"





"Ach, he'd just shrug. I got the impression that his mother wasn't

bothered what he was doing as long as he was out from under her feet.





She was away from his father by then, of course. Separated, divorced,

whatever."





"Did his parents not come along, then?"





Jimmy shook his head. "Never saw the mother. Not a once. His dad came

to one meeting. I think it was the time he was going for the British

junior record, but he blew it. I mind his dad took the piss out of him

good style. I took him to one side and told him if he couldn't back his

boy up, he wasn't welcome."





"How did he take that?"





Jimmy took a gulp of tea and said, "Ach, stupid bastard called me a bum

boy. I just told him to fuck right off, and that was the last we saw of

him."





Leon made a mental note. He knew Tony would be interested in this. As

he saw it, the young Jacko had been desperate for attention. His mother

was indifferent, his father absent and his whole being was focused on

his sporting achievement in the hope that somehow that would win him

approval. "So, was he lonely, Jacko?" He lit a cigarette, ignoring the

disapproving look on the coach's narrow face.





Jimmy considered the question. "He could mess about with the





best of them, but he wasn't really one of the lads, know what I mean? He

was too dedicated. He couldn't loosen up enough. Not that he was a

loner. No, he always had Jillie in tow, hanging around him, telling him

he was wonderful."





"So they were devoted to each other?"





"She was devoted to him. He was devoted to himself, but he liked the

adoration. Unconditional, like you get from a collie dog. Mind you,

even Jillie got the hump sometimes. I moved heaven and earth to keep

that pair together. Whenever she got fed up with taking the back seat

to his training or competitions, I used to bolster her up with how great

she'd feel when he stood there on the Olympic rostrum picking up the

gold. I'd say, most girls, the only gold they ever got was a poxy

wedding ring, but she was going to get a gold medal."





"And that was enough, was it?"





Jimmy shrugged, wafting Leon's smoke away with one hand. "To be honest,

it got so that was the only thing that kept her going. When he started

competing on the senior circuit, and Jillie was that wee bit older, she

started taking notice of the way the other lads treated their girls. And

Jacko didn't stand up too well to the comparison. If he hadn't have

lost his arm, she might just have put up with it for the acclaim and the

cash that went with it, because athletes were just about starting to

make mega bucks around then and the writing was on the wall for more to

come. But as soon as she decided he wasn't going to be a cash machine

or a household name, she got shot of him."





Leon was on full alert. "I thought he dumped her? Didn't I read at the

time that he broke off the engagement because he wasn't the man she'd

signed up for and it wasn't fair to tie her down? Something like that?"





Jimmy's mouth curled into a contemptuous smile. "So you fell for that

load of toffee? That was just the story Jacko leaked to the press, to

make him look like the big man instead of the sad bastard who'd been

dumped."





So Shaz might well have been right, Leon thought. Circumstance had

piled two traumatic stressors right on top of each other. First Vance

had lost his arm and his future. Then he had lost the one person who

had believed in him as a human being rather than as a throwing machine.





It would take a strong man to survive that unscathed; a warped one would

need to take revenge against a





world that had done this to him. Leon stubbed out his cigarette and

said, "Did he tell you the truth?"





"No. Jillie did. I was the one drove her to the hospital that day. And

I saw Jacko after she told him."





"How did he take it?"





Jimmy's eyes dripped contempt. "Oh, just like a man. He told me she

was a heartless bitch who was only after one thing. I told him he

didn't have to give in to his injuries, that he could train for the

disabled games and that it was just as well he found out the truth about

Jillie now. He told me to fuck off and never come near him again. And

that was the last time I saw him."





"You didn't go back to the hospital?"





The trainer's face was bleak. "I went every day for a week. He

wouldn't see me. Refused point-blank. He didn't seem to realize I had

lost my dreams, too. Anyway, I got the chance of this job back in

Scotland round about then, so I came back here and started all over

again."





"Were you surprised when he popped up as a television celebrity?"





"I can't say I was, no. He needs somebody telling him he's wonderful,

that one. I've often wondered if all those millions of viewers are ever

enough, if he's still as desperate to be adored as he was back then. He

could never see any value in himself that wasn't reflected in other

folks' eyes." Jimmy shook his head and signalled for another cup of

tea. "I suppose you want to know if he had any enemies and what his

deep dark secrets were?"





An hour later, Leon knew that what Jimmy Linden had told them at the

start of their conversation was the stuff that had mattered. Just as

well, he realized as he sat in the car afterwards. For some reason, his

miniature tape recorder had failed to turn over automatically and had

only recorded the first half of their chat. Feeling well pleased with

himself nevertheless, Leon set out on the long journey south, wondering

who'd done best so far. He knew it wasn't a competition. He'd liked

Shaz enough to do it for her sake. But he was sufficiently human to

realize that if he performed well out on the street, it would do him no

harm. Especially since he now understood that as far as Tony Hill was

concerned, he had more than a little to prove.





It wasn't difficult to spot the sports stadium and leisure-centre

complex. Spotlit against the dark Malvern Hills, it was visible for

miles





from the motorway. Once he'd turned off on to minor roads and a rash of

mini-roundabouts, however, Tony was glad he'd called in advance for

directions. The centre was too recently built for most locals to know

where it was, so the anonymous voice that had given explicit guidance

over the phone was clearly used to the process.





As it turned out, he'd have arrived safely if he'd simply followed any

other car heading in the same direction. The car park was already

crowded when he reached it, and he had to park a few hundred yards away

from the main entrance with its banner proclaiming, "Grand Opening Gala

with Special Guests Jacko Vance and Stars from the England Squad'.





Footballers for the lads, Jacko for the women, he thought as he walked

briskly across the Tarmac, grateful for the bulk of the stadium acting

as a buffer against the chill night wind.





He joined the throng of eager people thrusting through the turnstiles,

casting a practised eye along the staff checking tickets. He chose a

middle-aged woman who looked competent and motherly, and squeezed

through the press of bodies to present himself at her window. He

slipped his Home Office credentials out of his pocket and showed them to

her, arranging his face into a rueful, harried expression. "Dr. Hill,

Home Office, sports research group. I was supposed to have a V. I.P

pass, but it didn't arrive. I don't suppose ... ?"





The woman frowned momentarily. She gave him a swift appraisal,

reckoning whether he was up to something, realizing the queue behind him

was building up, finally deciding it was someone else's problem if he

was, she pressed the release button to let him through. "You want the

directors' suite. Round to the right, second floor."





Tony let the natural movement of the crowd carry him forward into the

vast echoing area under the grandstand, then edged to one side to study

the giant map of the stadium cunningly laid out on the underside of the

tiered seating. Whoever had designed it had been aware of the

three-dimensional surface it would be reproduced on, and it somehow

managed to be clear from whatever angle it was viewed. According to the

programme he'd just bought, there would be live music in the main arena,

followed by a demonstration five-a-side football match featuring England

squad players, then an Irish dance spectacular. For those who had

shelled out an extra fifty pounds or won one of the contests run by the

local TV, radio





and newspapers, there would be a chance to meet the celebrities. And

that was where he needed to be.





He slid through the crowd, calculating his moves so he upset no one on

his route to the executive lift. The lobby was cordoned off with heavy

crimson ropes. A security guard wearing a belt loaded with enough

equipment to stock a hardware store stared balefully out from under a

cap worn low like a guardsman. Tony knew it was nothing more than

bravado. He flashed his credentials at the guard, moving purposefully

as if the last thing he expected was to be challenged. The man took a

step backwards and said, "Wait a minute."





Tony was already at the lift, pressing the call button. "It's OK," he

said. "Home Office. We like to turn up when they least expect us. Got

to keep an eye on things, you know." He winked and stepped into the

car. "Don't want another Hillsborough, do we?" The doors slid closed

on the bemused face of the guard.





After that, it was easy. Out of the lifts, down the hall, in through

the open double doors, a glass of something straw-coloured and fizzy

from the nearest waist coated flunkey and he was established. Tony took

in the long windows that ran the length of the opposite wall, looking

down on the all-weather pitch. He could just see a team of majorettes

strutting their stuff down below. A thin crowd bunched around the edges

of the room. At the far end, over by the window, Jacko Vance stood at

the centre of a cluster of middle-aged women and a few men. His hair

gleamed in the refracted light from the spotlights over the pitch, his

eyes shone in the soft lighting of the executive suite. Even though he'd

already glad-handed his way through two charity appearances that day,

his body language was still warm, welcoming, his smile treating everyone

as a welcome equal. He looked like a god dealing with his worshippers

without condescension. Tony gave a thin smile. The third event since

he'd gone out on the prowl for Jacko, and every time he'd struck gold.





It was almost as if there were a connection, an invisible fibre optic

linking the hunter and the prey. This time, though, he'd make certain

those roles were never reversed. Once had been enough for that.





Tony moved to one side and made his way up the room, using the

legitimate guests as cover. After a few minutes, he had travelled the

length of the room, occupying a corner opposite Vance but slightly

behind him. His eyes moved regularly from side to side,

scanning the area immediately around the TV star, never lingering for

long, but never leaving Vance unattended for more than a moment.





He didn't have long to wait. A young woman with slicked back blonde

hair, John Lennon glasses and a scarlet cupid's bow bounced into the

room clutching a bag emblazoned with SHOUT! F M, checking over her

shoulder to see that her charges were still firmly in tow. Following in

a ragged line came three adolescent girls overdressed and over painted a

couple of youths with more spots than charm and an elderly woman whose

hair was so rigidly set it appeared the rollers were still bound into

it. Three paces behind slouched a nerd in a gi let with a dozen bulging

pockets, a pair of battered SLR cameras hanging negligently round his

neck. The winners of some moronic phone-in competition, Tony guessed.





He could think of one question they wouldn't have been asked: How many

teenagers has Jacko Vance murdered? It would take a year or two after

he'd finished his work for that to filter down into the trivia quiz

books.





The bouncy blonde approached where Vance was holding court. Tony could

see Vance look up at her then dismissively abandon her for the

middle-aged woman in the turquoise said he'd been charming previously.





The blonde lunged through the inner circle round Jacko, only to be

headed off by the woman Tony had noticed running interference for Jacko

the first time he'd staked him out. Their heads huddled together, then

the PA nodded and touched Vance on the elbow. As he turned, his

professional gaze slid round the room and caught Tony. The sweep of his

eyes paused momentarily, then continued, nothing else in his expression

changing.





The blonde's competition winners were ushered into the presence of their

idol. He smiled down on them, charm personified. He chatted, signed

autographs, shook hands, pecked cheeks and posed for photographs. Every

thirty seconds, his eyes lost their focus and glanced unerringly at

where Tony stood leaning against the wall, sipping fake champagne, his

pose and his expression reeking assurance and confidence.





As the competition winners reached the end of their audience, Tony moved

away from his vantage point and headed for the little group, still

standing near Vance, their expressions ranging from ecstasy to an

affected nonchalance, depending on how cool they felt the need to be.





All bonhomie, Tony insinuated himself into





their group, his expression a model of openness and geniality. "I'm

sorry to butt in on you," he said. "But I think you might be able to

help me. My name's Tony Hill and I'm a psychological profiler. You

know how stars like Jacko are always being plagued by stalkers? Well,

I'm working with a team of crack police officers on ways to find out who

those stalkers are before they start causing real problems. What we're

trying to do is to come up with a psychological profile of the perfect

fan, the good supporter. Someone like you, the sort of fan any

celebrity would be glad to have on their side. We need to do this so we

can get what's called a control profile. All we need is a short

interview with you. Half an hour, tops. We come to your place or you

come to us, we pay you and you get the comfort of knowing you might have

stopped the next Mark Chapman." He loved the way their faces always

changed when he mentioned the money.





Tony took out the pre-printed name and address slips from his inside

pocket. "How about it? Painless anonymous questionnaire, you help us

save a life and you earn yourself Just fill in your name and address on

one of these and one of my researchers will be in touch." Out came the

handsome embossed National Offender Profiling Task Force business cards.





"This is who I am." He handed them out. By now, all except one of the

youths had their hands out for a form. "There we go," he said,

providing them with pens.





He looked across at Vance. His face was still smiling, his mouth

forming words, his hands patting an elbow here, a shoulder there. But

his eyes were on Tony; dark, questioning, hostile.





The house was nothing special, Simon thought as he parked the car. A

three-bed roomed dormer bungalow on a thirty-year-old development that

was well on course to disprove the adage that life begins at forty.





She'd have done a lot better if she and Jacko had stayed together. She

certainly wouldn't have ended up in a town like Wellingborough where a

night out at the DIY super store was most people's idea of a good time.





He was amazed at the speed with which Carol Jordan had come up with

Jillie Woodrow's whereabouts, particularly since she was three years

into her second marriage. "Don't ask," Carol had said when he'd

complimented her, admitting it would have taken him days to make that

much progress. He remembered Tony Hill mentioning something to Carol

about her brother in the computer indus try and wondered if their

shoestring task force had just added data burglary to its

irregularities.





He sat in the car and looked across the narrow street at the house

belonging to Jillie and Jeff Lewis. It looked spick and span and

relentlessly suburban with its perfectly trimmed lawn and borders filled

with neatly equidistant hebes and heathers. There was a year-old Metro

on the drive and net curtains across the picture window. If Jillie

Lewis's attention had been caught by the sound of his engine, she could

be watching him and he'd have no idea at all.





This was almost certainly going to be the most crucial interview of his

career to date, Simon thought, gearing himself up for the task. He had

no clear idea of what he was going to ask, but if Jillie Lewis had

information that would nail Jacko Vance for the murder of Shaz Bowman,

he was determined to prise it out of her, one way or another. He hadn't

had the chance to find out whether he would ever have been allowed to

owe Shaz more than a colleague would. But even that was more than debt

enough for him. Simon got out of the car and pulled on the jacket of

his Marks and Spencer suit. Straightening his tie and his shoulders, he

took a deep breath and walked up the path.





The door opened seconds after his ring, stopped short by a flimsy chain

that he could have been past in seconds if he'd had a mind to. For a

brief, mad moment, he wondered whether this was the cleaner or the

nanny. The woman who faced him across the doorstep bore no superficial

resemblance to the old newspaper photographs of Jillie Woodrow, nor to

the teenage girls on the missing list. Her hair was a streaked blonde

urchin cut rather than the dark bob he'd expected, and she'd lost every

vestige of puppy fat, being skinny to the point where, if he were her

husband, Simon would be surreptitiously reading up on anorexia. He was

about to make his apologies when he recognized the eyes. The expression

had hardened, there were lines starting to show at the edges, but these

were Jillie Woodrow's dark blue soulful eyes. "Mrs. Lewis?" he asked.





The woman nodded. "Who are you?" Simon presented his warrant card and

she gasped, "Jeff ?"





Quickly Simon reassured her. "It's nothing to do with your husband. I'm

currently attached to a special investigations unit in Leeds, but my

home force is Strathclyde. I don't have any local connection."





"Leeds? I've never been to Leeds." When she frowned, discontent was

written across her face like an advertising hoarding.





Simon smiled. "Lucky you. There have been times lately when I've

wished I could say the same thing. Mrs. Lewis, this is a very awkward

situation and it would be a lot easier for me to explain it inside with

a cup of coffee than it is on the doorstep. Can I come in?"





She looked uncertain, making a show of checking her watch. "I'm

supposed to be at work," she said, carefully not saying when.





"I wouldn't be here if it wasn't important," Simon said, his apologetic

smile displaying the charm that had been one of the assets that had

taken him this far in his career.





"I suppose you'd better come in, then," she said, slipping the chain off

and stepping back. He walked into a hall that looked as if it belonged

to a show house. Spotless, tasteless and immaculate, it led into a

kitchen that no one appeared ever to have cooked in. Jillie led the way

and gestured to the circular table crammed into one corner. "You better

have a seat," she muttered as she picked up a kettle, dark green to

match the tiles along the splash back of the sink. "Coffee, then?"





"Please," Simon said, wedging himself behind the table. "Milk, no

sugar."





"I suppose you think you're sweet enough," Jillie said sourly, taking a

jar of cheap instant from the cupboard and spooning it into two china

mugs. "I suppose this is something to do with Jacko Vance, is it?"





Simon tried not to reveal how taken aback he was. "What makes you say

that?"





Jillie turned and leaned against the work top crossing her jean-clad

legs and folding her arms protectively over her chest. "What else would

it be? Jeff's an honest hard-working salesman, I'm a part-time data

processor. We don't know any criminals. The only thing I've ever done

that anybody outside these four walls would be interested in was being

Jacko Vance's girlfriend. The only person I've ever had anything to do

with who would interest some special investigation unit is Jacko bloody

Vance, come back to flaming haunt me again." It was a defiant outburst

and she concluded it by turning her back on him and managing to make

vicious the act of pouring two coffees.





Not quite sure where to go next, Simon said, "I'm sorry. It's clearly a

sensitive subject."





Jillie dumped the coffee in front of him. Given the pristine





kitchen, he was surprised she didn't run for a cloth when it slopped on

the pine tabletop. Instead, she retreated back against the work top

clutching her coffee like a child with a hot-water bottle. "I've got

nothing to say about Jacko Vance. You've had a wasted journey from

Leeds. Still, I suppose you get good mileage since it's the taxpayers

that foot the bill and not some skinflint company."





Her bitterness seemed to have infected the coffee, Simon thought

ruefully, sipping the brew to give himself time to think of a reply.





"It's a serious inquiry," he said. "We could use your help."





She banged her mug down on the work top





"Look. I don't care what he

says. It's not me that's pestering him. I had this up to the back

teeth just after I first married Jeff. I had cops round half a dozen

times. Was I sending Jacko anonymous letters? Was I making abusive

phone calls to his wife? Did I parcel up dog turds and post them to his

office? Well, the answer's the same now as it was then. If you think

I'm the only person Jacko Vance has upset in his selfish journey to the

top of the greasy pole, you have got a serious imagination deficiency."





She stopped short and glared at him. "I don't do blackmail, either. You

can check. Every penny in and out of this house is accounted for. I've

had that accusation to contend with, and that's a load of flaming

rubbish as well." She shook her head. "I can't believe that pig," she

fumed.





Simon held his hands up in a placatory gesture. "Whoa, wait a minute. I

think you've got hold of the wrong end of the stick here. I didn't come

to see you because Jacko made a complaint. Sure, I want to talk to you

about Jacko, but I'm only interested in what he's done, not what he says

you've done. Honest!"





She gave him a sharp look. "What?"





Uneasy that he might have gone too far, Simon said, "As I said, this is

all very sensitive. Jacko Vance's name has come up in an inquiry and my

job is to make some background checks. Without alerting Mr. Vance to

our interest, if you take my point." He hoped he didn't look as nervous

as he felt. Whatever he'd expected, it hadn't been this.





"You're investigating Jacko?" Jillie sounded incredulous but had

started to look almost cheerful.





Simon shifted in his chair. "Like I said, his name has come up in

connection with a serious matter ... "





Jillie punched her thigh. "Yes! And not before bloody time. Don't

tell me, let me guess. He hurt some poor bloody woman too much and

didn't terrify her enough to make her keep her mouth shut, is that it?"





Simon sensed the interview spiralling out of his control. All he could

do was cling on with his fingernails and hope he wouldn't get shaken off

somewhere along the way. "What makes you say that?" he asked.





"It was bound to happen some day," she said, all but gleeful. "So, what

do you want to know?"





By the time he got home, Tony's eyes were gritty with staring at too

many night motorway miles. He hadn't intended to check his answering

machine, but the flashing light caught his eye as he passed the door of

his study. Wearily, he hit the playback button. "Hi. My name's Chris

Devine. Detective Sergeant Chris Devine. I was Shaz Bowman's CID

partner in London for a while. She used me to set up her appointment

with Jacko Vance. Give me a call whenever you get in. Doesn't matter

how late it is."





He grabbed a pen and scribbled the number, reaching for the phone as

soon as the message clicked off. The phone rang half a dozen times,

then was picked up. "Is that Chris Devine?" he said to the silence.





"Is that Tony Hill?" The voice was pure South London.





"You left a message on my machine. About Shaz?"





"Yeah. Listen, I've had them turnips from West Yorkshire down here, and

they told me they're not working with you. Is that right?"





He liked a person who didn't waste time. "They feel it would compromise

the integrity of their investigation to involve me or any of Shaz's

other immediate colleagues," he said caustically.





"Bollocks," she said in disgust. They haven't got a fucking clue,

pardon my French. So are you running your own investigation, or what?"





It was like being pinned to the wall by a very large weight, Tony

thought. "I'm obviously very keen to see Shaz's killer caught," he

tried.





"So what are you doing about it?"





"Why do you ask?" he parried.





"To see if you need an extra pair of hands, of course," she said,

exasperated. "Shaz was a great kid, and she was gonna be a great cop.





Now, either Jacko Vance topped her for reasons we don't entirely know

yet, or somebody else did. Either way, the trail starts at his front

door, no?"





"You're right," Tony said. Now he knew what cement felt like under a

steamroller.





"And you're working the case?"





"In a manner of speaking."





Her sigh sounded like something from the Shipping Forecast. "Well, in a

manner of speaking, I could help. What do you need from me?"





Tony's mind raced. "I'm a bit stalled on leverage where Vance and his

wife are concerned. Something that might help me put a bit of a wedge

between them might help."





"Like, Micky Morgan's really a dyke?"





"That sort of thing, yes."





"You mean that's not enough?" Chris demanded.





That's for real?"





She snorted. "Course it's for real. They're so far in the closet you'd

take them for a pair of winter coats, but they're coke."





"Coke?"





The real thing. She's been with Betsy for donkey's years. Way before

she even met Jacko."





"Betsy Thorne? Her PA?"





"PA, bollocks. Lover, more like. Betsy had a good little catering

business with her ex, then she met Micky Morgan and it was wham, bam,

thank you, ma'am. They used to go to a couple of very discreet places

in the early days. Then they disappeared off the scene and, next thing

you know, she pops up as Jacko Vance's tot tie But Betsy's still right

there in the picture. See, Micky was on the up and up, and there were

rumours that the tabloids were going to nail her for being a dyke."





"How do you know all this?" Tony said faintly.





"How do you think? Christ, twelve, fifteen years ago, you didn't stay

in this job if you were out. We used to go to the same places. Places

where everybody was in the same boat so nobody ever shopped anybody

else. Take it from me, whoever Jacko Vance is shagging, it's not his

wife. Tell you the truth, that's what made me think Shaz was maybe on

to something."





"Did you tell Shaz about this?"





"I hadn't thought about Micky Morgan from one year's end to the next. It

only came to me after I set up the interview. I was





gonna let Shaz know when she belled me to tell me how she'd got on with

Jacko. So no, I never got round to telling her. Is this any use to

you?"





"Chris, it's fabulous. You're fabulous."





"That's what they all say, babe. So, you want me to help, or what?"





"I think you already have."





When Carol walked into her domain, the threesome were already there in

their accustomed places, a trickle of smoke curling out of the corner of

her window from Lee's cigarette. She sensed the smoking was meant as a

challenge. But although she'd never smoked -or perhaps for that very

reason the faint tang of cigarettes was something that seldom troubled

her. Carol found the energy for a smile and tried not to slump when her

backside hit the chair. "So, what have we got?"





Tommy Taylor rested his left ankle on his right knee and squirmed lower

in the chair. Carol didn't envy him the lower back pain he was storing

up for later years. He tossed a file negligently on to her desk. As it

slithered towards her, the edges of the papers inside spilled out. "We

know more about this lot's finances than their wives do."





"From what I hear about Yorkshire, that's not saying much," Carol said.





Tommy and Lee Whitbread grinned. Di Earnshaw's dour expression didn't

crack.





"By heck, ma'am, I think that might just be a sexist remark," Lee said.





"So sue me. What have we got?"





"It's all in the file," Tommy said, jerking a thumb towards her.





"Summarize."





"Di?" Tommy said. "You're the wizard with words."





Di unfolded her arms and thrust her hands into the pockets of an olive

green jacket that made her look ripe for throwing up. "Mr. Pendlebury

wasn't very keen, but he did authorize us to gain access to payroll

information which provided us with bank details, addresses and dates of

birth for our suspects. With that information we were able to check

county court judgements ... "





"And a little bird helped us with some commercial credit checking," Lee

chipped in.





"But we don't talk about that," Tommy said repressively. '





Carol said, "Can we edit out the stand-up and cut to the chase?"





Di's lips pursed in their now familiar disapproval. "Two candidates

stand out. Alan Brinkley and Raymond Watson. They're both heavily in

debt, as you'll see. Both local men. Watson's single, Brinkley's wed

about a year since. They're both on the edge of having their houses

repossessed, both got CCJs against them, both juggling Peter to pay

Paul. These fires have been a bit of a blessing for the pair of them."





"It's an ill wind," Taylor added.





Carol opened the file and took out the sheets relating to the two men.





"Good work. You did well to get this much detail."





Lee shrugged. "When you get down to it, Seaford's a big village.





Favours owed, favours paid."





"As long as we don't cross the line when it comes to wages day," Carol

said.





"Don't you trust us, ma'am?" Tommy drawled.





"Give me five good reasons why I should."





"So, d'you want us to pull them in for questioning?" Lee asked.





Carol considered for a moment. What she actually wanted was to consult

with Tony, but she didn't want them to know their guvnor wasn't able to

make her own decisions. "I'll get back to you when I've had a chance to

go through these in more detail. There might be more fruitful options

than trying to sweat it out of them."





"We could try for a search warrant." Lee again, the eager beaver of the

team.





"We'll discuss it again in the morning," Carol promised. She watched

them leave, then shoved the file into her bulging briefcase. Time for a

quick tour of the squad room, making sure the rest of the CID were doing

what they were supposed to be doing with the cases dominating the stacks

of paper on their desks. She hoped no one expected inspiration.





Perspiration was about all she had left to offer.





She was about to walk through the door when the phone rang. "DCI

Jordan," she said.





"Brandon here."





"Sir?"





"I've just been speaking to a colleague over in West Yorkshire. In the

course of our chat, we got round to talking about their officer murder.





He mentioned that their prime suspect seems to have done a runner. Some

chap called Simon Mcneill. He said they'd probably be putting out an

internal bulletin tomorrow morning asking other forces to keep a lookout

for Mcneill and detain him if they find him."





"Ah."





"I thought you might be interested," Brandon said airily. "With our

patch being next door to theirs."





"Absolutely, sir. As soon as I get the official notice, I'll be sure to

mention it to the squad."





"Not that I expect he'll turn up here."





"Mmm. Thank you, sir." Carol gingerly replaced the receiver. "Oh,

shit," she said softly.





Tony licked his finger and smoothed down a couple of unruly hairs in his

left eyebrow. He studied himself critically in the mirror that was,

apart from a pair of orange polypropylene bucket chairs, the only

furnishing in a room little bigger than a cupboard where he had been

asked to wait. He thought he looked appropriately serious in his one

decent suit even if Carol had told him it made him look like a

time-warped professional foot baller But not even she could fault his

dove grey shirt and dark magenta tie, he decided.





The door opened to reveal the calm-faced woman who had introduced

herself as Micky's PA but whom he'd identified, thanks to Chris, as

Micky's lover Betsy. "Everything all right?" she asked.





"I'm fine."





"Good." Her voice was warm and encouraging, like the best type of

primary school teacher. Her smile, however, was perfunctory, Tony

realized, her mind clearly elsewhere. "Now, this is quite unusual for

us, because normally Micky likes to come completely fresh to her guests.





But because ... well, because she feels involved, however tangentially,

with your tragic loss, she wants to have a few words with you ahead of

time. I take it you have no objection?"





There was something about that steely upper class voice that left no

possible room for demurral. Lucky Micky, he thought, to have such a

lioness at the gates. "I'd be delighted," he said, quite truthfully.





"Good. She'll be along in a few minutes. Is there anything you need?





Some coffee? Mineral water?"





"Does the coffee come from a machine?" he asked.





The smile this time was genuine. "I'm afraid so. Indistinguishable

from the tea, the hot chocolate and the chicken soup." '





"I'll pass, then."





The head disappeared and the door snicked shut. His stomach fluttered

apprehensively. Public displays always stressed him. But today there

was the additional tension of his campaign to unsettle Jacko Vance to

the point where he would make a mistake. Staking out Vance's personal

appearances was only the opening shot across the bows. Insinuating

himself into the heart of Vance's wife's TV programme was an incremental

upping of the stakes. There was no point in trying to kid himself

otherwise.





He cleared his throat nervously and compulsively rechecked his

appearance in the mirror. The door opened without warning and suddenly

Micky Morgan was in the room. Tony forced himself to turn slowly to

face her. "Hello, Ms. Morgan," he said, extending a hand.





"Dr. Hill," Micky said. Her handshake was swift, cool and firm.





"Thanks for coming on the programme."





"My pleasure. There's so much misunderstanding about what we do, I

always welcome the chance to set the record straight. Especially since

we're in the news again for all the wrong reasons." He deliberately

dropped his eyes momentarily.





"Quite. I was genuinely sorry to hear about Detective Constable Bowman.





I only met her very briefly, but she struck me as being very sharp, very

focused. As well as being very beautiful, of course."





Tony nodded. "She'll be missed. She was one of the best young officers

I've ever had the privilege of working with."





"I can imagine that. It's a terrible thing for police officers to lose

one of their own."





"There's always a lot of anger flying around, covering up for the fact

that they tend to feel a death in the family is a reflection of their

competence, that somehow they should have been able to prevent it if

they'd only been doing their jobs properly. And in this instance, I

share that guilt."





"I'm sure there was nothing you could have done to prevent it," Micky

said, impulsively putting a hand on his arm. "When I told my husband

you were coming on the programme, he said the same thing, and he's got

even less reason to feel responsible."





"No reason at all," Tony said, surprised he could sound so sincere.





"Even though we're now coming round to thinking that her killer may have

made contact with her in London rather than in Leeds.





In fact, I was hoping you might give me the chance to put out an appeal

for witnesses?"





Micky's hand flew to her throat in a curiously vulnerable gesture. "You

don't think she was stalked from our house, do you?"





"There's no reason to think that," he said hastily.





"No?"





"No."





"Thanks for the reassurance." She took a deep breath and pushed her

blonde hair back from her face. "Now, the interview. I'm going to ask

about why the unit was set up, how it's constituted, what sort of of

fences you'll be covering and when the task force will go into action.





Then I'll move on to Sharon ... "





"Shaz," Tony interrupted. "Call her Shaz. She hated being called

Sharon."





Micky nodded. "Shaz. I'll move on to Shaz, which will give you the

chance to ask for any help you want to solicit. Is that OK? Is there

anything else you particularly want the opportunity to say?"





"I'm sure I'll be able to get the message across," he said.





She reached for the door handle. "Betsy, my PA you spoke to her earlier

she'll come and fetch you shortly before we go on air. You'll be the

last item before we break for the news bulletin."





"Thanks," he said, wanting to say something to build a bridge between

them but not knowing what that might be. She would be his best way

under Jacko Vance's de fences if he could only find a way to manipulate

her into unconsciously helping him.





"You're welcome," Micky said. Then she was gone, leaving nothing behind

her but the faint scent of cosmetics. He'd only have one more chance to

get her on his side. He hoped he'd make a better job of it.





It had better be worth it, Vance thought. He'd cancelled lunch cooked

personally by Marco Pierre White for this, and the notoriously

temperamental chef would make him suffer for it. He locked his office

door and closed the blinds. His secretary knew better than to put any

calls through, and neither his producer nor his PA knew he was still in

the building. Whatever Midday with Morgan revealed, there would be no

one to see his reaction.





He threw himself on to the long leather sofa that dominated one side of

the room and put his feet up. His face a mask of petulance, he turned

on the giant TV screen with the remote control just as the familiar

titles started to roll. He had nothing to fear, he knew that. Whatever

Shaz Bowman had thought she'd known, she hadn't been able to convince

her colleagues. He'd already dealt with the police. They'd eaten out

of his hand, and rightly so. Some academic psychologist doling out

half-baked theories could hardly threaten him without the backing of the

plod. Nevertheless, being careful had kept him safe until now, and he

wasn't about to give in to the temptation towards arrogance that such a

successful career might breed.





He'd been able to glean some information about Tony Hill from his

sources, though not as much as he would have liked. Again, he had been

careful to keep the questions casual, taking pains not to have his

inquiries arouse curiosity. What he'd learned had pricked his interest.





He'd been behind the controversial Home Office study that had led to the

setting up of the profiling task force that Shaz Bowman had aspired to.





He'd been involved in a serial killer hunt in Bradfield where he'd ended

up with blood on his hands because he hadn't been smart enough. And

there were murmurings that there was something borderline perverse about

his sexuality. That had really got Vance's adrenaline pumping, but it

was the one angle he simply had to leave alone or risk his source

wondering exactly what his concern was with the psychologist.





Fascinated though Vance was with his speculations about Tony, his

thoughts were no competition for the TV screen. His attraction to the

glamour of television had never waned in all his years on the performing

end of the camera. He loved the medium, but most of all, he loved live

TV with all its high-wire risks. Even though he ought to have been

wondering how to neutralize Tony Hill if that became necessary, he

couldn't resist Micky. Familiarity had bred respect rather than

contempt for her professional skills and her talent. She really was one

of the best. He'd spotted that right from the word go, recognized that

she was one to have on his side. That he'd been able to keep her there

so effectively had been a huge bonus.





She'd been good back then, but she'd improved, no doubt about that.





Confidence had been part of that, Betsy another part. Her lover had

shown her how to submerge the rougher edges of aggression beneath a

surface of unruffled, gently probing interest. Most of Micky Morgan's

victims didn't even realize how effectively they'd been filleted till

someone played the tape back to them afterwards.





If there was any ruffling of Tony Hill's surface to be done, a live

interview with Micky would do it. He'd hinted to her that there might

be darkness lurking behind her guest's facade. Now it was up to her.





He watched the first fifty minutes of the programme with a connoisseur's

eye, assessing and appraising the performance of his wife and her

colleagues. That Midlands reporter was going to have to go, he decided.





He'd have to tell Micky. Vance hated journalists who brought the same

breathless urgency to stories of distant wars, cabinet reshuffles and

soap opera plots. It revealed a lack of empathy most successful hacks

learned to hide early on.





It was strange, he thought, how he'd never felt the slightest twinge of

sexual desire for his wife. True, she wasn't his type, but even so,

he'd periodically found women attractive who didn't conform to his

blueprint of desire. Never Micky, however. Not even on those rare

occasions when he'd glimpsed her naked. It was probably as well, given

the basis of their relationship. One glimmer of what he really wanted

from the female of the species and Micky would be history. And he

definitely didn't want that. Particularly not now.





"And after the break," Micky said with that intimate warmth he suspected

of causing erections among unemployed youths throughout the land, "I'll

be talking to a man who spends his days inside the heads of serial

offenders. Psychological profiler Dr. Tony Hill reveals the inside

secrets of the new national police task force. And we pay tribute to

the officer who has already tragically lost her life in that battle. All

that, and the news on the hour, after the break."





As the adverts took over, Vance pressed the record button on the video

remote. He swung his feet to the floor and leaned forward, intent on

the screen. The last commercial faded to the logo of Midday with Morgan

and his wife was smiling out at him as if he were the only light of her

life. "Welcome back," Micky said. "My guest now is the distinguished

clinical psychologist Dr. Tony Hill. Nice to have you with us, Tony."





The director switched to a two-shot, giving Vance his first sight of

Shaz Bowman's boss. The colour drained from his cheeks then raced back

in a dark flush. He'd thought Tony Hill was going to be a stranger. But

he knew the man on the screen. He'd spotted him first three gigs ago at

the sponsored sequence dancing competition. Lurking on the fringes,

talking to some of the regulars. He'd initially written him off as the

latest addition to the sad squad of his camp followers. But the night

before, at the sports centre, when he'd spotted him handing business

cards out to the others, he'd wondered. He'd planned to send someone

over to check him out, but it had slipped his mind. Now, here was the

stranger, sitting on a sofa talking to Vance's wife in front of millions

of viewers.





This was no routine nutter. This was no dumbshit plod. This was Shaz

Bowman's boss. This might just also be an adversary.





"How has the tragic death of one of your trainees affected the squad?"





Micky asked solicitously, her eyes glistening perfectly to convey

heartfelt sympathy as she leaned forward.





Tony's eyes slid away from hers, the pain obvious. "It's been a

shocking blow," he said. "Shaz Bowman was one of the brightest officers

it's ever been my privilege to work with. She had a real flair for

offender profiling work, and she'll be impossible to replace. But we're

determined that her killer will be caught."





"Are you working closely with the investigating officers on the case?"





Micky asked. His response to what she'd thought was a routine question

was interesting. His eyebrows flashed up and his eyes widened

momentarily.





"Everyone on the profiling task force is doing all they can to help," he

said quickly. "And it's possible that your viewers could also help us."





She was impressed with the speed of his recovery. She doubted if one in

a thousand of her viewers had even noticed the blip. "How is that,

Tony?"





"As you know, Shaz Bowman was murdered in her flat in Leeds. However,

we have reason to believe this wasn't a random killing. Indeed, her

murderer may not even be a local man. Shaz was in London on Saturday

morning, about twelve hours before she was murdered. We don't know

where she went or who she saw after about ten thirty on Saturday

morning. It's possible that her killer made contact with her that early

in the day."





"You mean it could have been a stalker?"





"I think it's possible that she was followed back to Leeds from London."





That wasn't quite the same thing, but Micky knew she didn't have time to

quibble. "And you hope someone witnessed this?"





Tony nodded and stared directly into the camera with the red light

showing. She could see his sincerity on the monitor in front of her.





God, he was a natural, all nervousness gone as he made his impassioned

appeal. "We're looking for anyone who saw Shaz Bowman after half past

ten on Saturday morning. She was very distinctive-looking. She had

particularly bright blue eyes, very noticeable. You may have seen her

alone or with her killer, perhaps filling her car with petrol she drove

a black Volkswagen Golf. Or possibly in one of the motorway service

areas between London and Leeds. You may have noticed someone taking an

unusual amount of interest in her. If so, we need to hear from you."





"We have the number of the Leeds incident room," Micky cut in as it

appeared on a ribbon across the foot of the monitor screen. She and

Tony disappeared to be replaced by a head and shoulders shot of Shaz

grinning at the camera. "If you saw Shaz Bowman on Saturday, no matter

how briefly, call the police and let them know."





"We want to catch him before he kills again," Tony added.





"So don't be afraid to call West Yorkshire Police or even your local

police station if you can help. Tony, thanks for coming in and talking

to us." Her smile shifted to the camera because her director was

bellowing from the control room. "And now, over to the newsroom for the

lunchtime bulletin."





Micky leaned back and let out her breath in an explosive sigh. "Thanks,

Tony," she said, unclipping her mike and leaning forward so their knees

touched in the angle of the sofa.





"It's me that should be thanking you," he said in a rush as Betsy strode

efficiently towards them. She reached over his shoulder to unfasten his

mike.





"I'll see you out," Betsy said.





Micky jumped to her feet. "It's been fascinating," she said. "I wish

we could have had longer."





Grabbing the chance, Tony said, "We could have dinner."





"Yes, I'd like that," Micky said, sounding surprised at herself. "Are

you free this evening?"





"Yes. Yes, I am."





"Let's make it this evening, then. Is six thirty OK? I need to eat

early, working this show."





"I'll book a table."





"No need. Betsy'll see to it, won't you, Bets?"





There was a flicker of indulgent amusement in the woman's face, Tony

thought. Almost immediately, the professional mask was





back. "No problem. But I need to get Dr. Hill off set, Micky," she

said, with an apologetic smile at him.





"OK. See you later, Tony." She watched Betsy hustle him away,

savouring the anticipation of picking the brains of someone really

interesting for a change. The demented bleating in her earpiece brought

her back to the cold reality of getting the rest of the programme out of

the way. "We go straight to the classroom anarchy piece, yeah?" she

said peering up at the control booth, her mind back on her job, Shaz

Bowman already a memory.





Carol stared out of her office window at the port below. It was cold

enough to get rid of the casual strollers. Everyone out there was

brisk, even the dog walkers. She hoped her detectives were following

their example. She dialled the hotel number Tony had left her. She was

as eager to hear about his TV appearance as she was to pass on her own

news. She didn't have to listen to the





"Cuckoo Waltz' for long.





"Hello?" she heard him say.





"Midday with Morgan was great, Tony. What did you think? Did you see

Jack the Lad?"





"No, I didn't see him, but I liked her more than I expected to. She's a

good interviewer. Lulls you into a false sense of security then sticks

in a couple of awkward questions. I managed to make the points I wanted

to make, though."





"So Vance wasn't around?"





"Not at the studios, no. But she said she'd told him I was going to be

on, so I wouldn't take any bets on Jack the Lad having missed today's

programme."





"Do you think she has any idea?"





"That we suspect her husband?" He sounded surprised at the question.





"That her husband's a serial killer." He was a little slow tonight,

Carol thought. Normally he read any conversation as if he'd seen the

script in advance.





"I don't think she has the faintest notion. I doubt she'd be with him

if she did." He sounded unusually positive. It wasn't like Tony to

categorize things as black or white.





"He really is a smooth operator."





"As silk. Now we have to sit back and see how much more it takes to

unsettle him. Starting with tonight. I'm taking his wife out to

dinner."





Carol couldn't help the pang of jealousy, but she kept her voice even.





She'd had plenty of practice with Tony. "Really? How did you manage

that?"





"I think she's genuinely interested in the profiling," he said. "Let's

hope I can dig some information out of her that we can use."





"If anyone can, you can. Tony, I think we've got a problem. With

Simon." Briefly, she relayed her conversation with John Brandon. "What

do you think? Should we persuade him to turn himself in?"





"I think we leave it up to him. If you're comfortable with that? Given

that he might well be sitting in your living room again before all of

this is over."





"I don't expect it to be a problem," Carol said slowly. "It's only an

internal bulletin we're talking about here. It's not as if there's

going to be a nationwide manhunt with his picture splashed across the

papers. Well, not for a couple of days yet, anyway. If it runs into

next week and he's not been home or in contact with his friends and

family, it might get more serious, in which case we'd have to persuade

him to come in from the cold."





"You're assuming he won't meekly walk into police HQ in Leeds?"





Carol snorted derisively. "What do you think?"





"I think he's got too much invested in what we're doing. And speaking

of which, how have the team been doing?"





She filled him in on Kay's grand tour of the grieving. When she came to

the photograph she'd pried from the unwilling hands of Kenny and Denise

Burton, Carol heard a sharp intake of breath.





"The zealots," he said.





"I'm sorry?"





"Zealots. Fanatics. Jacko Vance's disciples. I've been to three of

his public appearances so far, and there's a few obsessives who show up

every time. Just three or four of them. I noticed them right away."





"You ever end up on the dole, you could get a job as a spotter for

Neighbourhood Watch," she said. "You could call it Nutter Watch."





He laughed. "The point is, two of them were taking photos."





"Gotcha?"





"Could be. Could very well be. This is very, very good. This might

just give us the edge. He's clever, Carol. He's the best I've ever

seen, ever heard about, ever read about. Somehow, we've got to be

better." His voice was soft but keen, charged with determination.





"We are. There are five of us. He only ever sees things from one

angle."





"You're so right. I'll talk to you tomorrow, OK?"





She could sense his eagerness to be active, to be gone. She couldn't

blame him. Micky Morgan would be a real challenge to his skills and

Tony was a man who adored a challenge. Whether he obtained fresh

information from her or merely used their dinner date to set the cat

among Jacko Vance's pigeons, he would be more effective than anyone else

she could think of. But she couldn't let him go just yet. "There's one

more thing ... the arsonist?"





"Oh God, yes, of course, I'm sorry. Any progress?"





She outlined the discoveries of her team, giving a thumbnail sketch of

the two suspects. "I'm not sure at this stage whether to bring them

both in for questioning and try for a search warrant for their homes, or

set up surveillance. I thought I'd run it past you."





"How do they spend their money?"





"Brinkley and his wife go in for conspicuous consumption. New cars,

household goods, store credit cards. Watson looks like a gambler. He

raises cash any way he can and passes it on to the bookies."





Tony said nothing for a moment. She pictured him frowning, a hand

running through his thick black hair, his deep-set eyes dark and distant

as his mind moved over the question. "If I was Watson, I'd bet on

Brinkley," he said eventually.





"How so?"





"If Watson is truly a compulsive gambler, he's convinced it's the next

bet, the next lottery ticket that will solve all his problems. He's a

believer. Brinkley hasn't got that conviction. He thinks if he can

just keep ahead of the game, cut down on spending, find some extra cash,

he can get out of this mess by some conventional route. That's my

reading of it. But whether I'm right or wrong, bringing them in for

questioning isn't going to get you a result. It might stop the fires,

but nobody will ever be charged with them. A search warrant won't help

either, from what you've told me about how the fires are started. I

know it's not the answer you want to hear, but surveillance is your best

chance of a conviction. And you need to cover both of them in case I've

got it wrong."





Carol groaned. "I knew you were going to say that," she complained.





"Surveillance. A copper's favourite job. A budgetary nightmare."





"At least you only have to cover the hours of darkness. And he's

operating frequently, so it's not going to last for long."





"That's supposed to make me feel better?"





"It's the best I can manage."





"OK. Not your fault. Thanks for your help, Tony. Off you go and enjoy

dinner. I'm going home to a frozen pizza and, hopefully, updates from

Simon and Leon. And, please God, an early night. Sleep ... " The last

word sounded like a caress.





Tony laughed. "Enjoy it."





"Oh, I will," she promised fervently. "And Tony good luck."





"In the absence of miracles, I'll settle for that."





The click of his receiver going down sliced off any chance of her

telling him the other thing she'd initiated that day. She couldn't work

out exactly why she'd felt impelled to do it, but her instinct told her

it was important. And past experience had taught her painfully that her

instinct was sometimes far more reliable than logic. Something had

niggled at the back of her mind until, in the midst of all the other

tasks for the day, she'd found time to send a query out to all the other

police forces in the country. Detective Chief Inspector Carol Jordan of

East Yorkshire Police wanted to hear about any recent reports of teenage

girls inexplicably missing from home.





"Mike Mcgowan? That's him, over in the corner booth, duck," the barmaid

said, gesturing with her thumb.





"What does he drink?" Leon asked. But the barmaid had already moved on

to another customer. The pub was moderately busy, occupied almost

completely by men. In a small East Midlands town like this, there were

clear distinctions between pubs where men went to spend their time with

women and ones where they went to avoid that necessity. The giveaway

here was the large board outside advertising





"All day satellite sport,

giant screens'.





Leon sipped his lager shandy and took a moment to watch Mike Mcgowan.





Jimmy Linden had offered his name as the media expert on Jacko Vance.





"Like me, Mike spotted him early on and he wrote a lot about him over

the years," he'd said. When Leon had contacted Mcgowan's old paper in

London, he'd discovered that the journalist had been made redundant

three years before. Divorced, his children grown and scattered round

the country, there had been nothing





to keep Mcgowan in the expensive capital, so he'd returned to the

Nottinghamshire town where he'd grown up.





The ex-reporter looked more like a caricature of an Oxbridge don than

any national newspaperman Leon had ever seen. Even sitting down, he was

clearly tall. A mop of grey-blond hair cut in a heavy fringe that

flopped over his eyes, big tortoiseshell glasses and pink and white skin

gave him the same boyish looks that Alan Bennett and David Hockney

turned into trademarks. His jacket was the sort of ancient tweed that

takes fifteen years to look wearable then lasts another twenty without

any sign of attrition. Beneath it he wore a grey flannel shirt and a

striped tie with a narrow tight knot. He sat alone in the narrow corner

booth, staring up studiously at a 56-inch TV screen where two teams were

playing basketball. As Leon watched, Mcgowan tapped the bowl of a pipe

against the ashtray, automatically cleaning and filling it without

taking his eyes from the screen.





When Leon loomed up next to him, he still didn't take his eyes off the

basketball. "Mike Mcgowan?"





"That's me. And who are you?" he said, local vowels as distinctive as

the barmaid's shattering the illusion of lofty academe.





"Leon Jackson."





Mcgowan threw him a quick look of assessment. "Any relation to Billy

Boy Jackson?"





Astounded, Leon almost crossed himself. "He was my uncle," he blurted

out.





"You've got the same shaped head. I should know. I was ringside the

night Marty Pyeman fractured your uncle's skull. That's not what you've

come to see me about, though, is it?" The quick glance this time was

shrewd.





"Can I get you a drink, Mr. Mcgowan?"





The journalist shook his head. "I don't come here for the drink. I

come for the sport. My pension's crap. I can't afford a satellite

subscription or a screen like this. I was at school with the landlord's

dad, so he doesn't bother that I make a single pint last the best part

of the day. Sit down and tell me what you're after."





Leon obeyed, taking out his warrant card. He tried to snap it shut and

away, but Mcgowan was faster. "Metropolitan Police," he mused. "Now

what would a London bobby with a Liverpool accent be doing with a

retired hack in darkest Nottinghamshire?"





"Jimmy Linden said you might be able to help me," Leon said.





"Jimmy Linden? Now there's a name from the past." He closed the

warrant card and slid it across to Leon. "So what's your interest in

Jacko Vance?"





Leon shook his head admiringly. "I never said I had an interest in the

man. But if that's who you want to talk about, be my guest."





"My, they're teaching them subtlety these days," Mcgowan said acidly,

striking a match and applying it to his pipe. He sucked and expelled a

cloud of blue smoke that swallowed whole the feeble spiral from Leon's

cigarette. "What's Jacko supposed to have done? Whatever it is, I bet

you never manage to nick him for it."





Leon remained silent. It nearly killed him, but he managed it. This

clever old bastard wasn't going to put one over on him, he thought,

almost convincing himself.





"I haven't seen Jacko in years," Mcgowan finally said. "He's not that

keen on faces who remember what he was like when he had all his limbs.





He hates being reminded of what he lost."





"You'd think what he's got now would be compensation," Leon said. "Great

job, more money than any reasonable geezer could spend, gorgeous wife,

house the size of a stately home. I mean, how many Olympic gold medal

lists got a better deal than that?"





Mcgowan slowly shook his head. "Nothing can compensate a man who thinks

he's a god for the discovery of his vulnerability. That lass of his was

lucky she got out from under. She'd have been the obvious choice when

it came to making somebody pay for what the gods had done to Jacko

Vance."





"Jimmy said you knew more about Jacko than anybody else."





"Only superficially. I followed his career, I interviewed him. I

probably caught a few glimpses behind the mask, but I wouldn't say I

knew him. I can't think of anybody that did. Really, there's nothing I

want to say about Jacko Vance that I haven't already put in writing."





Mcgowan breathed out another plume of smoke. Leon thought it smelled

like Black Forest gateau, all cherries and chocolate. He couldn't

imagine wanting to smoke a pudding. "Jimmy also said that you kept

cuttings files on the athletes that really interested you."





"My, you did get a lot out of old Jimmy. He must have taken to you in a

big way. Mind you, he's always had a lot of respect for black athletes.





He reckoned they had to work twice as hard as anybody else to get their

start. I suppose he reckoned it was probably much the same in the

police."





"Or maybe I'm just a good interviewer," Leon said drily. "Any chance of

you letting me take a look at your cuttings?"





"Any in particular, Detective?" Mcgowan teased.





"I'd be guided by you as to what was interesting, sir."





Mcgowan, his eyes firmly on the basketball, said, "A career as long as

mine, it'd be hard to pick out particular highlights."





"I'm sure you could manage it."





"This finishes in ten minutes. Perhaps you'd care to come back and look

at my files?"





Half an hour later, Leon was sitting in a room in Mcgowan's two-bed

roomed terrace that managed to be both spartan and cluttered. The only

furniture was a battered leather swivel chair that looked as if it had

seen service in the Spanish Civil War, and a scarred and scratched

gun-metal grey desk. All four walls were covered with industrial metal

shelving and packed with shoeboxes, each with a label stuck to the outer

edge. "This is incredible," he said.





"I always promised myself that when I retired, I'd write a book,"

Mcgowan said. "Amazing how we delude ourselves. I used to travel the

world covering the top sporting events. Now my world's shrunk to the

satellite screens in the Dog and Gun. You'd think I'd be depressed. But

the funny thing is, I'm not. I've never been so bloody contented all my

born days. It's reminded me that what I always liked best about sport

was watching it. Freedom without responsibility, that's what I've got

now."





"A dangerous mixture," Leon said.





"A liberating mixture. Three years ago, you turning up would have had

me sniffing a story. I'd not have rested until I'd found out what was

going on. Now, it's hard to imagine how I could care less. I'm more

excited about the Vegas fight on Saturday than I could ever be about

anything Jacko Vance has said or done." He pointed to a shelf. "Jacko

Vance. Fifteen shoeboxes full. Enjoy yourself, lad. I've got an

appointment with a tennis match at the Dog and Gun. If you're gone

before I get back, just pull the front door closed behind you."





When Mike Mcgowan returned just before midnight, Leon was still working

his way systematically through the cuttings. The journalist brought him

a mug of instant coffee and said, "I hope they're paying you overtime,

lad."





"More of a labour of love, you might say," Leon said wryly.





"Yours or your boss's?"





Leon thought for a moment. "One of my mates. Call it a debt of

honour."





"The only kind worth paying. I'll leave you to it. Try not to slam the

door behind you when you go."





Leon was half aware of the sounds of someone getting ready for bed:

floorboards creaking, plumbing grumbling, a toilet flushing. Then

silence apart from the whisper of yellowed newsprint.





It was almost two when he found what he thought he might just be looking

for. There was only one cutting, a fleeting mention. But it was a

start. When he let himself out into the dark and empty street, Leon

Jackson was whistling.





Her eyes were as candid as any he could remember. She pushed the last

morsel of the smoked duck on to her fork, speared a final mange tout and

said, "But surely it has an effect on you, spending so much time and

energy getting inside such twisted logic?"





Tony took longer than he needed to finish his mouthful of polenta. "You

learn to build Chinese walls," he said at last. "You know but you don't

know. You feel but you don't feel. I imagine it's similar to being a

news journalist. How do you sleep at night after you've been out

reporting on something like the Dunblane massacre or the Lockerbie

bombing?"





"Yes, but we're always outside the event. You have to get inside or you

fail, surely?"





"You're not always outside the event, though, are you? When you met

Jacko, the story invaded your life. You must have had to build walls

between what you knew of the man personally and what you reported to the

world. When his ex-girlfriend was doing her kiss-and-tell revelations

with the tabloids, you can't have looked at that as just another story.





Didn't it affect the way you viewed your world?" he said, seizing the

first chance he'd had to get her talking about her husband.





Micky pushed her hair back from her face. Twelve years on, he could see

the contempt for Jillie Woodrow hadn't grown less. "What a bitch," she

muttered. "But Jacko said it was mostly fiction, and I believe him. So

it didn't really get under my de fences





The arrival of the waiter let her off the hook and he cleared their (

plates in silence. Then, alone again, Tony repeated the question.





"You're the psychologist," she parried, reaching into her bag and

producing a pack of Marlboro. "Do you mind if I ... ?"





He shook his head. "I didn't realize you did."





"Only after dinner. A maximum of five a day," she said, a droll twist

to her mouth. The control freak's control freak, that's me."





The expression gave him a jolt. The one and only time he'd used the

expression, he'd been talking about a compulsive killer who had almost

robbed him of his own life. To hear it from her lips was dislocating

and strange.





"You look like you've seen a ghost," she said, inhaling her first

mouthful of smoke with an air of sensuous pleasure.





"Just a stray memory," he said. "There are a lot of very bizarre

resonances kicking around inside my head."





"I bet. Something I've always wondered is how you know when you're

getting it right in a profile." She inhaled deeply and blew pale

filtered smoke down her nostrils, an expression of interest on her face.





He gave her an appraising look. It was now or never. "The same way any

of us work out anything about people. A mixture of knowledge and

experience. Plus knowing the right question to ask."





"Such as?"





The interest was so genuine he almost felt guilty for what he was about

to do to their pleasant evening. "Doesn't Jacko mind that Betsy's in

love with you?"





Her face froze and her pupils dilated in a panic reflex. After a long

moment she swallowed and managed a faint laugh. "If you were trying to

wrong-foot me, you certainly succeeded." It was one of the best

recoveries he'd ever seen, but he hadn't imagined the confession in her

eyes.





"I'm no danger to you," he said softly. "Confidentiality is second

nature to me. But I'm not a fool either. You and Jacko, it's as fake

as a nine-bob note. Betsy was there first. Oh, there were rumours. But

you and Jacko had the most public courtship since Charles and Diana. It

killed the gossip."





"Why are you bringing this up?" she asked.





"We're both here because we're curious. I've answered all the questions

you asked me. You can return the compliment, or not." His smile was,

he hoped, warm.





"God," she said wonderingly. "You have got a nerve."





"How do you think I got to be the best?"





Micky looked speculatively at him, waving away the waiter who was

approaching with the dessert menus. "Bring us another bottle of the

Zinfandel," she said as an afterthought. She leaned forward and spoke

softly. "What do you want to ask?"





"What's in it for Jacko? Surely he's not gay?"





Micky shook her head emphatically. "Jillie dumped Jacko after his

accident because she didn't want to be with a man who wasn't perfect. He

swore he would never enter into another sexual relationship where his

emotions were engaged. He needed a decoy to keep the women away from

him, I needed a man to hide Betsy behind."





"Mutual benefit."





"Oh, yes, mutual benefit. And to be fair to Jacko, he's never tried to

renege on the deal. I don't know what he does for sex, though I suspect

well-paid call girls come into it. Frankly, I don't care as long as he

never embarrasses me." She stubbed out her cigarette and gave him the

accomplished frank gaze she normally directed at the camera.





"I'm amazed that someone who's paid to be curious about other people is

so lacking in curiosity about her own husband."





Her smile was ironic. "If there's one thing that eleven years of

marriage to Jacko has taught me, it's that nobody gets to know Jacko.





It's not that I think he tells lies," she said consideringly, ' that

I don't think he tells very much of the truth. Different people get

little bits of Jacko's truth, but I don't think anybody gets it all."





"How do you mean?" Tony picked up the discreetly delivered bottle of

wine, refilling Micky's glass and topping up his almost full one.





"I get to see Jacko behaving in public like the perfect, solicitous

husband, but I know that's an act. When there's only the three of us

around, he's so distant it's hard to believe we've all lived under the

same roof for the last dozen years. When he's working he acts like

people expect a TV celeb to behave perfectionist, a bit OTT, yelling at

the crew and his PA when things don't get done just so. But with the

public, he's Mr. Charm. Then, when it comes to raising money, he's a

hard-headed businessman. Do you know that for every pound he makes for

charity, he earns two for himself?"





Tony shook his head. "I suppose he'd argue that he's generating funds

for the charity they wouldn't get otherwise."





"And why should he work for free? Right. Me, when I do charity events,

I don't even take my expenses. But then there's the other





side, the volunteer work he does with people who are terminally ill or

severely damaged after accidents. He spends hours by their bedsides,

listening, talking, and nobody knows what goes on between them. One

time a journalist tried to sneak in a tape recorder to reveal "the

secret heart of Jacko Vance". Jacko found out about it and he smashed

the tape recorder. He literally stamped it to pieces. They thought he

was going to do the same to the journalist, but the guy had the good

sense to make his legs do the walking."





"A man who likes his privacy," Tony said.





"Oh, he gets plenty of that. He's got a house in Northumberland, out in

the middle of nowhere. I've seen it once in twelve years and that was

only because Bets and I were driving up to Scotland and we decided to

drop in on him. I practically had to force him to make us a cup of tea.





I've never felt less welcome in my whole life." Micky smiled

indulgently. "Yes, you could say that Jacko likes his privacy. But

that's OK with me. Better that than hanging around in my face all the

time."





"He can't have been very pleased to have the police poking their noses

in, then," Tony said. "After Shaz Bowman's visit, I mean."





"You're not kidding. It was actually me who called the police, you

know. The way Betsy and Jacko reacted, you'd think I'd shopped them on

a murder rap. It was a nightmare, trying to make the pair of them see

that we couldn't ignore the fact that this poor woman had been at the

house not long before she was murdered."





"Just as well one of you has a sense of duty," Tony said drily.





"Well, yes. Besides, at least one other person knew she was coming to

the house that other police officer that Jacko spoke to. It wasn't as

if we could hope to keep it to ourselves."





"I feel so guilty about Shaz," Tony said, half-turning away. "I knew

she was worrying away at some theory of her own, but I didn't think

she'd take action on it without clearing it with me."





"You mean you don't know what she was working on either?" Micky said

incredulously. "The cops who came to the house didn't seem to have much

of a clue, but I thought you'd be sure to know."





Tony shrugged. "Not really. I know she had some idea that there was a

serial killer preying on teenage girls and that he might be a celebrity

stalker as well. But I didn't have the details. It was only supposed

to be a training exercise, not the real thing."





Micky shivered and emptied her glass. "Can we change the subject? It's

bad for the digestion, talking about murder."





For once, he wasn't about to argue. The gamble had paid off handsomely.





And he'd never been greedy. "OK. Tell me how you got the Agriculture

Minister to admit his involvement with that biotechnology company."





Carol stared down the three mutinous faces opposite her. "I know nobody

likes stakeout work. But that's the way we're going to catch our man.





At least the intervals between his outings are pretty short, so the

chances are we're going to get lucky within a few days. Now, this is

the way I want it to work. We're going to do it single-handed. I

realize that makes it tougher, but you know what budgets are like. I've

spoken to uniform and they've agreed to let us have some bodies to cover

during daylight hours. Each night at ten, two of you will pick up the

surveillance. You'll each work two nights on and one off. You will

each use the other as back-up if it looks like we've got something going

off. We start today. The first watchers are out there now. Any

questions?"





"What if we get clocked?" Lee asked.





"We don't get clocked," Carol said. "But if the unthinkable happens,

you pull off, call your oppo and swap targets at the first opportune

moment. I appreciate this is a tough operation with such a low body

count. But I have every confidence that you can pull this off. Don't

disappoint me, please."





"Ma'am?" Di said.





"Yes?"





"If we're really that tight on staffing levels, why don't we prioritize

our two suspects and focus on the most likely with all our resources?"





It was an awkward question, and an intelligent one. It was one Carol

herself had debated with Nelson over breakfast that morning. It had

taken her mind off a growing fear that was coming to obsess her. "Good

question," she said now. "I considered it myself. Then I thought, what

if we go for the wrong candidate and we only find that out after another

fatal fire?" She let the question hang in the air. "So I decided it

was probably better in terms of public policy to opt for thin cover over

both suspects."





Di nodded. "Fair enough. I just wondered."





"Right. Sort out the rota among yourselves, and knock off now until

ten. Keep me posted. Anything happens, I'm only a phone call away.





Don't keep me in the dark."





"When you say only a phone call away, ma'am ... " Tommy drawled

suggestively.





"I want to be there when you make an arrest."





"Aye, that's what I thought you meant."





His feigned disappointment was aimed at annoying her, she knew.





Determined not to show he'd succeeded, Carol smiled sweetly. "Believe

me, Tommy, you should be grateful for that. Now get out of here and let

me get some work done." Her hand was on the phone before she'd finished

speaking. She hit the first number on a list in front of her, tapping

her pad with a pencil as Seaford's finest trooped out with all the brio

of a snail on Valium. "Close the door behind you, please," she called.





"Hello? Force control? This is DCI Jordan from East Yorkshire. I need

to talk to someone about Mispers ... I sent out an information request

about teenage girls ... "





Tony eased the car on to the slip road, wondering whether he'd enjoy

driving more if he had one of those ultimate driving machines he saw in

all the glossy adverts instead of a clapped out old Vaux-hall. Somehow,

he doubted it. But that wasn't what he was supposed to be thinking

about as his windscreen wipers slapped the slanting Yorkshire rain away

to reveal a distant prospect of Bradford. At the ring road, he followed

the achingly precise instructions he'd been given and eventually pulled

up outside a terraced house whose obsessive neatness was matched only by

the military precision of its single flower bed. Even the curtains

appeared to have been drawn back so that exactly the same amount of

lining showed at each side of the window.





The doorbell was a nasty insistent buzz. It opened to reveal a man Tony

had spotted at every Jacko Vance event he'd attended. He'd persuaded

him and a couple of other camera-toting enthusiasts to part with names

and addresses on the pretext that he was doing a study of the phenomenon

of fame as seen through the eyes of the fans rather than the famous. It

was meaningless drivel, but it made them feel important enough to be

co-operative.





Philip Hawsley was first, for no better reason than living nearest. As

he followed him into a preternaturally tidy front room that smelled of

furniture polish and air freshener, and looked like a heritage museum

recreation of lower middle class life in 1962, Tony registered all the

signs of the obsessive compulsive. Hawsley, who could have been any age

between thirty and fifty, constantly ran his fingers over the buttons of

his beige cardigan to check they were all in place. He studied his

fingernails at least once a minute to ensure they hadn't grown dirty

since he last looked. His greying hair was cropped in a short, military

style and his shoes were polished to mirror radiance. He invited Tony to

sit, pointing out the chair he wanted him to occupy, and offered no

refreshment, sitting down very precisely opposite the psychologist,

ankles and knees pressed firmly together.





"Quite a collection," Tony said, glancing round the room. An entire

wall was given over to shelves of video tapes, each labelled with a date

and name of a programme. Even from where he was sitting, he could see

the vast majority were Vance's Visits. A laminated wall unit held a

series of albums and scrapbooks. Half a dozen books sat on a shelf

above the unit. Pride of place went to a large framed colour photograph

sitting on the wall-mounted gas fire. It showed Hawsley shaking hands

with Jacko Vance.





"A small tribute, but mine own," Hawsley said in a prissily camp voice.





Tony could imagine all too vividly how he would have been teased as an

adolescent. "We're the same age, you know. To the very day. I feel

our fates are inextricably linked. We're like two sides of the same

coin. Jacko is the public face and I am the private."





"It must have taken years to amass all this material," Tony said.





"I've dedicated myself to maintaining the archive," Hawsley said primly.





"I like to think I have a better overview of Jacko's life than he does

himself. When you're so busy living it, you don't have time to sit and

reflect on it the way I do. His bravery, his common touch, his warmth,

his compassion. He's the complete man of our time. It's one of life's

little paradoxes that he had to lose part of himself to gain that

pre-eminence."





"I couldn't agree more," Tony said, naturally falling back into the

conversational techniques that years of working with the mentally ill

had delivered into his repertoire. "He's an inspiration, is Jacko." He

sat back and let Hawsley's adulation flow over him, pretending to

fascination when what he felt was disgust for this killer who disguised

himself so well that the innocent and ill fell for his every pretence.





Eventually, after Hawsley had relaxed enough to inch back from the edge

of his chair into an approximation of comfort, Tony said, "I'd love to

see your photograph albums."





The crucial dates were carved on his memory. "For the purposes of our

study, we're going to be looking at precise points in people's careers,"

Tony said as Hawsley opened the cabinet and started taking down albums.





Every time Tony mentioned a month and year, Hawsley chose a particular

volume and laid it on the coffee table in front of Tony, open at the

appropriate pages. Jacko Vance was clearly a busy man, doing between

five and twenty appearances a month, many of them related to charity

fund-raising, often for the hospital in Newcastle where he did volunteer

work.





Hawsley's memory for detail when it related to his idol was phenomenal,

a mixed blessing for Tony. On the plus side, it gave him plenty of time

to scrutinize the images before him; the minus side of the equation was

that his droning voice came close to sending Tony into a hypnotic

trance. Soon, however, Tony felt a quiver of excitement that snapped

him back to full attentiveness. There, just two days before the first

of Shaz Bowman's cluster of teenage girls had disappeared for good, was

Jacko Vance opening a hospice in Swindon. In the second of Hawsley's

four photographs of the event, Tony saw a face he'd memorized, right

next to Jacko Vance's gleaming head. Debra Cressey. Fourteen when she

vanished. Two days earlier, gazing up adoringly at Jacko Vance as he

signed an autograph, she'd looked like a girl in paradise.





Two hours later, Tony had identified another missing girl next to Vance,

this time apparently in conversation with her. A third possibility was

straining upwards on tiptoe to steal a kiss from a laughing Vance. But

her head was half-turned from the camera, making it hard to be certain.





Now all he had to do was to extract the photographs from Hawsley. "I

wonder if I could borrow some of these photographs?" he asked.





Hawsley shook his head vigorously, looking deeply shocked. "Of course

not," he said. "It's vital that the integrity of the archive is

maintained. What if I were called on and there were missing items from

the inventory? No, Dr. Hill, I'm afraid that's completely out of the

question."





"What about negatives? Do you still have them?"





Clearly offended, Hawsley said, "Of course I do. What kind of sloppy

operation do you think I'm running here?" He rose and opened the

cupboard in the wall unit. Negative storage boxes were stacked on the

shelves, each as obsessively labelled as the videos. Tony shuddered

inwardly, imagining the painstaking listing of every negative in the

box. Not so much anal retentive as banal retentive.





"Well, could I borrow the negatives so I can have them copied?" he

asked, determinedly keeping the edge of exasperation out of his voice.





"I can't let them out of my possession," Hawsley said stubbornly.





"They're significant."





It took another fifteen minutes to find the acceptable compromise. He

drove Philip Hawsley and his precious negatives to the local

photographic shop where Tony paid an extortionate sum to have prints

made of the relevant photographs while they waited. Then he drove

Philip Hawsley home so he could replace the negatives in their proper

place before their companions noticed they'd gone.





Driving down the motorway to the next name on his list, he allowed

himself a short moment of triumphalism. "We're going to get you, Jack

the Lad," he said. "We are going to get you."





All Simon Mcneill really knew about Tottenham was that they had a

second-rate football team and they killed a copper during a riot some

time in the eighties when he'd still been at school. He didn't expect

the natives to be friendly, so it was no surprise when his appearance at

the local electoral roll office was greeted with less than rapture. When

he explained what he wanted, the stick insect in a suit behind the

counter cast his eyes heavenwards and sighed. "You'll have to do it

yourself," he said grudgingly. "I haven't the staff to spare,

especially with no notice at all." He showed Simon into the dusty

archives, gave him a ten second run-down on the filing system and left

him to it.





The results of his search were not encouraging. The street where Jacko

Vance had grown up had consisted of about forty houses back in the

sixties. By 1975, twenty-two of the houses had disappeared, replaced,

presumably, by a block of flats called Shirley Williams House. The

eighteen remaining houses revealed a steady turnover of registered

electors, few people seeming to remain for more than a couple of years,

particularly during the grim poll tax years of the mid-eighties. Only

one name remained constant throughout. Simon pinched the bridge of his

nose to ease the beginning headache. He hoped Tony Hill was right, that

all this would bring them closer to nailing Shaz's killer. The image of

her face rose painfully before him, her startling blue eyes bright with

laughter. It was almost more than he could bear. No time to brood, he

told himself as he shrugged back into his leather jacket and set off to

find Harold Adams.





Number 9 Jimson Street was a tiny terraced house in dirty yellow London

brick. The little oblong of garden that separated it from the street

was choked with empty beer cans, crisp packets and take away food

containers. A scrawny black cat stared up malevolently as he opened the

gate, then sprang for freedom with a chicken bone in its teeth. The

street smelled of decay. The desiccated shell who opened the door after

much rattling of bolts and turning of locks looked as if he must have

already been an old man when Jacko Vance was a boy. Simon's heart sank.





"Mr. Adams?" he asked, without much hope of intelligent response.





The old man cocked his head in an effort to defeat his stoop and look

Simon in the eye. "You from the council? I told that woman already, I

don't need a home help and I don't want meals on wheels." His voice

sounded like a hinge in desperate need of oil.





"I'm from the police."





"I never saw anything," Adams said swiftly, moving to close the door.





"No, wait. It's nothing like that. I want to talk about somebody who

lived here years ago: Jacko Vance. I want to talk about Jacko Vance."





Adams paused. "You're one of them journalists, aren't you? You're

trying to con an old man. I'm going to call the police."





"I am the police," Simon said, waving his open warrant card in front of

faded grey eyes. "Look."





"All right, all right, I'm not blind. You lot are always telling us,

you can't be too careful. What d'you want to talk about Jacko Vance

for? He hasn't lived here for ... let me see, must be seventeen,

eighteen years now."





"Could I come in and have a chat, maybe?" Simon said, half-hoping Adams

would send him off with a flea in his ear.





"I suppose so." Adams pulled the door wide and stood back to let Simon

enter. He caught a whiff of the old man smell of spilled urine and

stale biscuits before he turned into the living room. To his surprise,

the place was spotless. There wasn't a speck of dust on the screen of

the huge TV set, not a mark on the lace-edged arm protectors on the easy

chairs, not a smear on the glass of the framed photographs that lined

the mantelpiece. Harold Adams was right; he didn't need a home help.





Simon waited for the old man to settle in his own chair before he sat

down.





"I'm the last one left," Adams said proudly. "When we came here





in 1947, it was like a big family, this street. Everybody knew

everybody's business and, just like a family, they was always falling

out. Now, nobody knows anybody, but they still fall out just the same."





When he grinned, Simon thought, his face looked like the skull of a

predatory bird whose eyes had somehow survived.





"I bet they do. So you knew the Vance family pretty well?"





Adams sniggered. "Not much of a family, you ask me. His dad, called

himself an engineer, but as far as I could see, all that meant was he

had an excuse for disappearing at the drop of a hat for weeks on end.





Mind you, it wouldn't surprise me if he earned a bob or two. He was

always dressed better than the street, if you get my meaning. Never

spent a shilling on the house or the wife and kid that he didn't have

to, though."





"What was she like?"





"Off her head. She had no time for that lad, not even when he was a

babe in arms. She'd stick him out the front in his pram and just leave

him there for hours. Sometimes she even forgot to take him in when it

started raining and my Joan or one of the other women would have to go

and knock on her door and tell her. My Joan used to say that some days

she was still in her dressing gown at dinner time."





"Did she drink, then?"





"I never heard that, no. She just didn't like the kid. Cramped her

style, I suppose. When he got older, she just let him run wild, then

when people went to complain, she'd come down on him like a ton of

bricks. I don't know what went on behind closed doors, but sometimes

you'd hear that kid sobbing his heart out. Never did no good, mind."





"How do you mean?"





"He was a nasty piece of work, that Jacko Vance. I don't care what they

say about him being a hero and sportsman, he had a nasty streak a mile

wide. Oh, he could be all charm when he thought it would get him

somewhere. He had all the wives in this street wrapped round his little

finger. They were always giving him little treats, letting him watch

telly round their house when his mum locked him out." Adams was

enjoying himself. Simon suspected it wasn't often these days that his

malice was allowed free rein. He was determined to make the most of it.





"But you knew different?





Adams sniggered again. "I knew everything that went on in this street.





I caught that little bugger Vance once round the back of the lock-up

garages off Boulmer Street. He had a cat by the scruff, you know, so it

couldn't fight him off. He was dipping its tail in a jar of petrol when

I came round the corner. And there was a box of matches on the ground

beside him." The momentary silence was eloquent. "I made him let the

cat go, then I kicked his arse for him, good and proper. I shouldn't

think I stopped him, though. Cats were always going missing round here.





People used to comment on it. Me, I had my own ideas."





"Like you said, a nasty piece of work." It was almost too good to be

true. Simon had spent too much time preparing for his assignment in

Leeds not to recognize the accepted markers for psychopathy in a

background history. Torturing animals was textbook stuff. And this man

had seen it first hand. He couldn't have found a better source if he'd

searched for weeks.





"He was a bully, an' all. Always picking on the little kids, daring

them to do dangerous things, getting them hurt, but he never laid a

finger on them himself. It was like he set it up to happen and then

stood back and watched. Me and Joan, we were glad our two were grown

and gone by then. And by the time the grandkids came along, Vance had

discovered he could throw a silly spear further than anybody else. We

hardly saw him after that, and good riddance to bad rubbish, if you ask

me."





"You'll not find many people with a bad word to say about that man,"

Simon said mildly. "He saved some lives, you can't argue with that. He

does a lot of work for charity. And he gives up his time to work with

the terminally ill."





Adams screwed up his face in a sneer. "I told you, he likes watching.





He probably gets a kick out of knowing they'll be dead soon and he'll

still be strutting around like Lord Muck on the telly. I'm telling you,

sonny, Jacko Vance is a nasty piece of work. So, what are you after him

for?"





Simon smiled. "I never said I was after him."





"So what d'you want to go around talking about him for, then?"





Simon winked. "Now, you know I can't reveal the details of a police

investigation, sir. You've been extremely helpful, I will say that

much. If I was you, I'd keep an eye on the television for the next few

days. With a bit of luck, you'll find out exactly why I came here." He

got to his feet. "And now, I think I'd better be on





my way. My senior officer will be very interested in what you have to

say, Mr. Adams."





"I've been waiting years to say it, sonny. Years, I've been waiting."





Barbara Fenwick had been killed six days before her fifteenth birthday.





If she'd lived, she'd have been almost twenty-seven. Her mutilated body

had been found in a walker's hut on the moors above the city, strangled.





There were signs that she had had sexual intercourse against her will,

though there had been no trace of sperm either inside or outside her

body. What made the crime unusual was the nature of her injuries. Where

most psychopathic killers disfigured the sexual organs of their victims,

this killer had crushed the girl's right arm to a bloody pulp,

shattering bones and tearing muscle till it was difficult to reconstruct

which fragment went where. Even more interestingly, the pathologist had

been insistent that the injuries were consistent with the application of

increasing pressure rather than a single, terrible impact.





It had made no sense to the investigating officers.





The finders of Barbara's body were in the clear, having been camping and

hiking together for the previous six days. Her parents, who had been

distraught since her disappearance five days previously, were also under

no suspicion. The girl had been alive and well for a couple of days

after they had reported her missing and her stepfather had been in the

company of his wife and at least one police officer ever since. The

parents had said all along that their daughter was happy at home, that

she would never have run away, that she must have been abducted. The

police had been sceptical, pointing out that Barbara's best clothes were

missing and that she had told her parents a lie about her movements

following school the day she disappeared. Added to that, she'd bunked

off school, and not for the first time.





It had made no sense to the investigating officers.





Barbara Fenwick hadn't been a wild, troublesome teenager. She wasn't

known to the police, her friends denied she drank more than the

occasional can of sweet cider and no one thought she'd ever experimented

with drugs or sex. Her last boyfriend, who had chucked her a month

before to go out with someone else, said they'd never gone all the way

and he thought in spite of her sexy looks she was probably, like him, a

virgin. She'd been doing reasonably well at school and had ambitions to

train as a nursery nurse.





The last reliable sighting of her had been on the local bus to

Manchester on the morning of her disappearance. She'd told the

neighbour who had spotted her that she was going to the Dental Hospital

for an appointment to do with her wisdom teeth. Her mother said Barbara

didn't have any sign of wisdom teeth, a fact borne out by the

pathologist.





It had made no sense to the investigating officers.





There had been nothing in her behaviour to suggest a girl about to go

off the rails. She'd been out to a disco with a bunch of friends on the

Saturday night before her disappearance. Jacko Vance had been there,

making a celebrity appearance, signing autographs for charity. Her

friends said she'd had a great night.





None of this had made any sense to the investigating officers.





But it made a lot of sense to Leon Jackson.





The stone slab was so well engineered that it didn't even make the

sinister grating sound of a horror film. When a small electrical

current applied pressure to a particular, precise point, it simply

pivoted silently through 180 degrees to reveal the steps that led to the

small crypt that no one would any longer suspect existed beneath the

converted chapel. Jacko Vance flipped the switch that flooded the crypt

with harsh fluorescent light and descended.





The first thing he noticed was the smell, hitting him before his head

was far enough underground to be able to see the creature that had once

been Donna Doyle. The putrefaction of pulverized flesh mingled with the

stale smell of unwashed fevered skin and the acrid reek of the chemical

toilet. He felt his stomach turn, but told himself he'd smelled worse

in the terminal ward as gangrene devoured the bodies of people who had

already had as much amputated as could reasonably be excised. It was a

lie, but one that stiffened his sinews.





At the bottom of the steps, he stood and stared at the pathetic creature

pressing herself against the cold stone wall as if she expected to be

able to push her way through it and so escape him. "God, you're

disgusting," he said contemptuously, taking in her matted hair, foul

wounds and the dirt she'd gathered bumping into things in the dark.





He'd left her boxes of breakfast cereal and she had water from the tap

on the rising main. There was no excuse for her to be in this state;

she could have made an effort to clean herself up instead of sitting on

the mattress in her own filth, he thought. The leg irons allowed her

enough freedom of movement for that, and the pain from her arm hadn't





been enough to stop her from eating, judging by the open packets lying

around her. He was glad he'd opted for a plastic-covered mattress so he

could hose off her disgusting presence when he'd finished with her.





"Look at yourself," he sneered, swaggering across the room towards her,

unbuttoning his jacket and tossing it over a chair that was well out of

her reach. "Why should I want anything to do with a mess like you?"





The whimpering noise that came from Donna's bruised lips was wordless.





With her undamaged hand, she grabbed at the blanket in a poignant

attempt to cover her nakedness. In one swift step, Jacko was towering

over her, yanking the rough woollen cover away from her. With his

prosthetic arm, he smashed her across the face and she fell back on the

mattress, tears spilling and mingling with the blood and mucus from her

nose.





Vance stepped back and spat at her. Coolly, he stripped himself,

folding his clothes and placing them neatly on the chair. He was hot

and hard, ready for what he'd come there for. He'd had to wait longer

than usual, longer than he'd wanted because of that inconvenient bitch

Bowman. After the discovery of her body he hadn't dared come near the

place until he'd seen off the police, wary of attracting their notice.





And even if Tony Hill thought he had something on him, there was no

proof and no one to pay him any attention. It was safe to come back for

another dose of what made life worth living, the sweet allotment of

vengeance, the savour of suffering.





He dropped to his knees on the mattress, forcing the teenager's legs

apart with a rough hand, relishing her protests, her futile attempts at

prevention, her sad little cries of repudiation. As he thrust into her,

he let his full weight fall on her injured arm.





Donna Doyle finally produced a coherent sound. The scream that echoed

round the grim little crypt was, unequivocally, "No!"





Carol yanked open the door and practically dragged Tony into the

cottage. "We were beginning to wonder if you'd got lost," she said,

marching ahead of him to the dining table where a wide-mouthed Thermos

of soup sat next to a couple of loaves of olive bread and a selection of

cheeses.





"Accident on the motorway," he said, dropping a folder on to the table

and sinking into a chair. He looked disoriented and sounded

preoccupied.





Carol poured two mugs of soup and passed one to Tony. "I need to talk

to you before the others get here. Tony, this isn't just an academic

exercise any more. I think he took another one a few days before he

killed Shaz."





Suddenly she had all his attention. Whatever had been on his mind when

he'd walked through the door was thrust aside and his dark blue eyes

burned into hers. "Evidence?" he demanded.





"I had a hunch, so I put out a Misper request nationwide. I got a call

this afternoon from Derbyshire. Donna Doyle. Aged fourteen. From

Glossop. About five miles from the end of the Mjy." Carol gave him a

copy of the fax the local CID had sent her. "The mother put this flyer

together because the police weren't terribly worried. The usual

pattern, you see. She left the house to go to school in the morning,

with an excuse for not being home until late. Her best clothes were

missing. Premeditated runaway, case not so much closed as discreetly

ignored. But I had a chat with the WPC who interviewed the mother

before they lost interest. I didn't lead her; she volunteered that a

couple of nights before she went missing, Donna had been out with one of

her friends at a charity do where Jacko Vance was the guest of honour."





"Shit," Tony exhaled. "Carol, depending on what he does with them, she

could still be alive."





"I didn't even want to think it."





"It's possible. If he keeps them before he kills them and we know a lot

of serial offenders do that for the power charge it gives them chances

are he won't have risked going near her since he murdered Shaz. Christ,

we've got to find a way to locate his killing ground. And soon." They

looked at each other with the constricting realization that another life

could depend on how well they did their jobs. "He's got a cottage in

Northumberland," Tony said.





"He's not going to be doing it on his own doorstep," Carol objected.





"Probably not, but I wouldn't mind betting that his killing ground is a

short drive from there. What have the team got?" he said grimly.





Carol glanced up at the clock. "I don't know. They're due here any

minute. They were meeting in Leeds and coming on together. They've all

checked in, and it sounds like we've hit a lot of pay dirt."





"Good." Before he could say more, they both heard the sound of an

engine labouring up the hill to the cottage. "Here comes the cavalry,

by the sounds of it."





Carol opened the door and the trio trooped in, all looking remarkably

pleased with themselves. They piled into chairs round the table,

pulling off jackets and coats and dumping them on the floor, eager to

begin. Tony ran a hand through his hair and said, "We think he took a

girl just before he killed Shaz. She could still be alive." It gave

him no pleasure to watch the light bleed out of their eyes, to see their

faces change from the glow of satisfaction to the pinched pale of

anxiety. "Carol?"





Carol relayed the information she'd already given Tony, while he went to

the kitchen and poured out the coffee he'd smelled brewing. When he

returned, he said, "We're not going to have the luxury of time to draw

out a detailed profile and brainstorm all the elements of it. We're

going to have to go hell for leather to get evidence and do what we can

to save another life. So. Let's hear how we've all been doing. Kay,

why don't you kick off?"





Succinctly, Kay reported on her interviews with the bereft parents. "The

bottom line is that they're all telling the same story. There are no

significant discrepancies, either with what they originally told the

police, or with each other's version of events. I managed to pick up a

photograph of one of the girls with Jacko Vance, and I have established

that they all went to events in their local area within a few days of

their disappearance. But no stronger connection than that. Sorry."





"You've nothing to apologize for," Tony said. "You did a great job. It

can't have been easy, getting this much out of people who are still

suffering because their child is on the missing list. The picture is

helpful, too, because we can tie that down very specifically. Good job,

Kay. Simon?"





"Thanks to Carol, I was able to track down the fiancee who chucked Jacko

after his accident. If you remember, Shaz put forward the theory it was

that emotional event, coupled with the shock of his accident, that

tipped him over the edge into killing. Well, from what I heard, he

maybe didn't have that far to fall.





"According to Jillie Woodrow, there was nothing normal about Jacko's

bedroom habits. Right from the start of their sex life, he had to be in

control. She was supposed to be passive and adoring. He hated her

touching him sexually and, on occasion, he actually slapped her for

laying hands on him. He became more interested in S&M pornography and

wanted her to act out fantasies from magazines and books and from his

own imagination. She didn't mind being tied up, she says, and she

didn't much mind the spanking or the whipping, but when he started on

the hot candle wax and the nipple clamps and the outsize vibrators, she

drew the line." He glanced down at the brief notes he'd made to ensure

he got through his report without missing out anything crucial.





"She reckons that somewhere around the time his athletics career took

off and he started banking big money, he began going to prostitutes.





Nothing seedy, nothing low rent or street corner. From what he let

slip, she thinks he had a couple of expensive call girls that he used,

women who would either go along with the more extreme stuff that he

wanted, or else they'd lay on the kind of lassies that it didn't matter

if he messed up. Junkies, that sort of thing. According to Jillie, she

was desperate to get out, but she was terrified of how he'd react.





Outside the bedroom, he was the perfect partner. Solicitous, kind,

generous, but incredibly possessive. So, after the accident, she

grabbed the chance with both hands. She figured if she told him while

he was in the hospital, he wouldn't be able to react. And he'd be stuck

in there long enough to cool





down and get over her." Simon looked up and was surprised by how grim

Tony looked.





"And we all know what happened next, don't we?" Tony said. "Micky

Morgan. The marriage of convenience."





The faces around the table went from incomprehension to shocked

amazement as he filled them in on what he'd heard first from Chris

Devine and then from Micky herself. "So we're seeing some fascinatingly

aberrant behaviour here," he said. "Still hard to stand anything up

that a senior officer would stake his arrest record on, but we know now,

don't we?" They didn't have to say anything. The answer was in their

eyes.





"There's more," Simon said, launching into Harold Adams's tale.





"Man, the more we find out, the more incredible it is that Jack the Lad

is still walking the streets," Leon sighed, lighting his third cigarette

since he'd walked in. "Wait till you hear what I've dug up." He passed

on the meagre information he'd obtained from Jimmy Linden in a matter of

minutes. "Then he told me about this retired jour no Mike Mcgowan. This

guy has forgotten more about sport than we'll ever know. He's got

archives the British Library would kill for. I tell you, it took me

half the night to get through the stuff he's got on Jack the Lad. And

then I found this."





With a flourish, Leon produced a brittle clipping and five photocopies

of the article. It came from the Manchester Evening News and dealt with

the murder of Barbara Fenwick. Emphasized in yellow highlighter, one

paragraph stood out. '"Barbara was no party girl, according to her

friends. Her last Saturday night out was typical. She was one of a

group who went to a disco where sports hero Jacko Vance was making a

charity appearance." This was just fourteen weeks after the accident,"

Leon pointed out.





"He didn't hang about, did he? Got stuck right into the charity work,"

Simon said.





"Well, we never doubted that he was driven," Tony commented. "So, is

there any evidence that Vance actually met this girl?"





"The high point of her night out was getting his autograph." Leon

passed round copies of the summary he'd prepared from the police

evidence store. "They wouldn't let me photocopy the files, so I had to

do this. I reckon she was his first victim," he said confidently.





"And I reckon you're right," Tony breathed. "Oh, this is good, Leon,

this is really good. He got better after this. My God, those hill

walkers must practically have stumbled over him. Look, it says they saw

what they thought was a Land Rover heading off down the track just after

they came over the ridge. Jack the Lad got a fright. He realized he

needed a proper killing ground, a place where he wasn't going to be

disturbed. We think that might be in Northumberland, by the way. Near

his cottage. But without more information ... " He rubbed his hands

over his face. "A twelve-year-old case, though. Where's the evidence?"





Leon looked slightly downcast. "They don't know. They moved all the

unsolved stuff to a new location about five years ago, and all the

forensics on this case have either got lost or misfiled. Not that there

was much, according to the abstract. No prints, no body fluids. Some

tyre tracks, but that's no use a dozen years on."





The investigating officers. That's who we need to talk to. But before

we discuss what comes next, I'd better tell you what I've come up with.





It's pretty meagre compared to the huge strides you three have taken,

but it does give us a handy chunk of circumstantial evidence." Tony

opened his folder and fanned out an array of photographs. "I've done

the rounds of the zealots. I have to say it was very like being back

working in a secure mental hospital. At the risk of baffling you with

professional jargon, they're all a few bricks short of a wall. However,

after enduring the histories of their assorted obsessions with Jacko

Vance, what we've got is a selection of photographs of Jacko taken at

events where we know our putative victims were also present. Four of the

pics put him next or near to one of our missing girls. In another five

or six, it's possible that the girl in the picture is one of ours, but

by no means certain without computer enhancement." He leaned over and

began carving himself a chunk of bread.





"With Kay's pick-ups, that makes five. We've got an overlap," Carol

said.





"I don't suppose it's enough to start an official investigation?" Tony

asked without hope. He started to slice some cheese.





Carol pulled a face. The trouble is, there's no connection to my patch.





If one of these girls had disappeared from East Yorkshire, I'd be

willing to have a go at getting something moving, but I can't find one.





Even so, I don't know where we could take any investigation. All we've

got is highly circumstantial; it's nowhere near enough to bring him in

for questioning, never mind a search warrant."





"So you don't reckon we could convince West Yorkshire to take





another look at Vance, even with this much?" Kay asked.





Simon snorted. "Are you kidding? Given what they think about me? Every

time I see a cop car on the road, I start sweating. Anything we come up

with is tainted because they're convinced I'm the killer and you're

protecting me. I don't think they're going to believe a word we say."





"Point taken," Kay said.





"What we need is a witness who saw him with Shaz after she's supposed to

have left his house. Ideally, someone who saw them in Leeds," Leon

suggested.





"Ideally, a bishop of the Church of England," Carol said cynically.





"Don't forget, it has to be somebody whose word would stand up against

the people's champion."





The hand that was cutting the cheese slipped and Tony sliced the edge

off his index finger. He jumped to his feet, blood dripping from the

wound. "Shit, fuck and God damn it," he exploded. He thrust his finger

into his mouth and sucked.





Carol grabbed the paper napkin wrapped round the Thermos to catch drips

and bandaged it round his finger, gripping it tightly. "Klutz," she

said briskly.





"It was your fault," he said, subsiding into the chair.





"My fault?"





"What you said. About unimpeachable witnesses."





"Yes?"





"The camera doesn't lie, right?"





"Depends if it's digital or not," Carol said ironically.





"Don't be difficult. I'm talking cameras that are already used to

convict criminals."





"What?"





"Motorway cameras, Carol. Motorway cameras."





Leon snorted in derision. "Don't tell us you've fallen for that one?"





"What?" Tony said, puzzled.





"Great myths of our time number forty-seven. Motorway cameras catch

villains. Not." Leon leaned back in his chair, his cynical swagger

full on.





"What do you mean? I've seen those programmes on TV, police videos of

car chases. And what about all those speeding convictions on the back

of still photographs from the motorway cameras?" Tony demanded

indignantly.





Carol sighed. "The cameras operate perfectly. But only in certain

situations. That's what Leon's getting at. The still cameras only snap

vehicles travelling well in excess of the speed limit. They're not

going to flicker a shutter at much under ninety. And the videos are

only actually turned on if there's an incident in progress or a

traffic-flow problem. The rest of the time, they're just not running.





And even when they are, you'd need state-of-the-art enhancement software

to get anything convincing from them."





"Wouldn't your brother know somebody?" Simon asked. "I thought he was

some sort of computer whizz kid."





"Well, yes, but we haven't got anything to show him yet, and we're not

likely to have," Carol objected.





"But I thought when Manchester city centre got blown to bits by the IRA,

the police backtracked the route the bombers' van took using the

motorway cameras?" Tony said persistent to the last.





Kay shook her head. "They thought they might have been able to pick it

up on the photos of the speeders, but there wasn't enough detail ... " Her

voice tailed off and her face lit up.





"What is it?" Carol asked.





"Private CCTV videos," she breathed. "Remember? Greater Manchester

Police put out an appeal for any garages or food outlets with CCTV

surveillance on possible routes to submit their recordings. We won't

get Vance or Shaz on motorway surveillance, but we'll get them wherever

they stopped for petrol. Logically, Shaz would have filled up before

she left Leeds. She'd have got all the way to London, but she'd not

have made it all the way back on a single tank. And the chances are,

she would have used a motorway service area rather than come off the

motorway just for petrol."





"And you lot can get access to these tapes?"





Carol groaned. "It won't be access that's the problem. Most companies

are happy to co-operate. Usually they don't even bother asking what

it's all in aid of. It's the prospect of all those hours of jerky

video. I'm getting a migraine just at the thought of it."





Tony cleared his throat. "Actually, Carol, I was going to suggest that

you come with me to talk to the police officers who investigated Barbara

Fenwick's murder." He gave an apologetic smile to the other three.





Simon and Kay looked merely disappointed, but Leon looked mutinous. "I'm

sorry, but this needs a senior officer to look good. And it needs to be

small scale. We don't want to give these guys the hump. We want to

avoid giving the impression that they





did a lousy job and we're the crack troops coming in to clear up the

mess. This is one for me and Carol. What I'd like you to do is divide

up the motorway and check out all these service station cameras." Now

all three looked deeply fed up. "I'd do it myself if I could," Tony

said sympathetically. "But this is one for the warrant card."





Inarticulate grumbling came from round the table. "We know," Simon said

scathingly.





"And Donna Doyle might still be alive," Carol pointed out.





The trio of detective constables stared at each other, eyes dark and

serious. Leon nodded slowly. "And even if she isn't, the next one is."





One of the first lessons Tony Hill had learned as a profiler was that

preparation was never wasted. It was hard for him and Carol to work up

enthusiasm in the stacks of a dusty police document store, but they both

knew how important it was to stay alert as they combed the files. The

drudgery of poring over every available piece of information was as

vital to painting an accurate picture of a killer as the flair that some

people seemed naturally to bring to the job. Plodding alone never made

a good profiler, but neither did flashy charisma. He'd been happy to be

proved wrong about Leon. His superficial approach to the training

exercise had confirmed all Tony's prejudices about his peacock display.





But either he'd learned from the humiliation of being shown up in front

of the rest of the team or else he was one of the ones who could only

ever do it for real. Either way, Tony thought as he and Carol ploughed

the identical furrow a day later, he couldn't fault the job he'd done.





At the end of a couple of hours, they leaned back in their seats almost

simultaneously. "Looks like Leon didn't miss a thing," Tony said.





"Looks that way. But if we're going to talk to the man who ran the

case, we needed to know that for ourselves."





"I really appreciate your help in this, Carol," he said quietly,

knocking the papers into a neat pile. "You didn't have to stick your

neck out."





One corner of her mouth twisted in what might have been a smile or a

trace of pain. "I did, you know," was all she said. What she didn't

say was that they both knew she would never be able to turn her back on

his need, personal or professional. And that she also knew the feeling

was mutual, provided they both stayed within the limits they seemed to

have evolved to keep themselves whole.





"You're sure you can spare the time away from your arson investigation?"





he asked, understanding what lay unspoken.





She stacked papers in a file box. "If anything's going to happen, it'll

happen at night. That may be the price you have to pay for crashing in

my spare room."





"I think I can just about afford that," he said wryly. He followed her

back to the counter where they returned the files to a uniformed PC who

looked like his thirty was approaching but not fast enough for him.





Carol gave him her best smile. "The officer in charge of this inquiry

Detective Superintendent Scott? I take it he's retired now?"





"Finished up ten years ago," the man said, hefting the heavy boxes and

heading for the distant shelves where they had come from.





"I don't suppose you know where I could find him?" Carol called to his

retreating back.





His voice floated back, muffled by the shelves. "He lives out Buxton

way. Place called Countess Sterndale. There's only three houses."





It took a few minutes to obtain directions to Countess Sterndale, which

didn't appear on their map, and another thirty-five to drive there. "He

wasn't lying, then," Tony said at the end of the single-track road that

concluded in a tree-lined loop round a circle of grass. A battered

Queen Anne manor house faced them and over to their left was a pair of

long, low cottages with heavy slate roofs and thick limestone walls.





"Which one, d'you reckon?"





Carol shrugged. "Not the manor, unless he was on the take. Eeny meeny,

miny mo ... " She pointed to the right-hand cottage.





As they walked across the grass, Tom said, "You take the lead. He'll

open up more easily to a copper than a mumbo jumbo man."





"Even though I'm a woman?" Carol asked ironically.





"You have a point. Play it as it lays." He opened a smartly painted

gate which swung back silently. The path was herringbone brick, not a

single weed in the interstices. Tony raised the black iron knocker and

let it fall. The sound echoed behind the door. As it died away, heavy

footsteps approached and the door opened to reveal a broad man with iron

grey hair brilliantined in a side parting and a toothbrush moustache. He

looked like a forties matinee idol put out to grass, Carol thought,

stifling a smile. "I'm sorry to trouble





you, but we're looking for ex-Detective Superintendent Scott," she said.





"I'm Gordon Scott," he said. "And you are?"





This was where it got difficult. "DCI Carol Jordan, sir. East

Yorkshire Police. And this is Dr. Tony Hill from the National

Profiling Task Force." To her surprise, Scott's face lit up with

delight.





"Is this to do with Barbara Fenwick?" he said eagerly.





Dismayed, Carol looked helplessly at Tony. "What makes you say that?"





he asked.





A laugh rumbled in his chest. "I might have been out of the game for

ten years, but when three people in two days turn up to look at the

files of my only unsolved murder, somebody picks up the phone. Come in,

come in." He ushered them into a comfortable sitting room, ducking to

avoid cracking his head on the door frame. The room felt lived in, with

magazines and books in unruly piles by the pair of armchairs that faced

each other across the beamed fireplace. Scott waved them into the

chairs. "How about a drink? My wife's off doing the shopping in

Buxton, but I can just about manage tea. Or a beer?"





"A beer would be great," Tony said, reluctant to wait while Scott brewed

tea. Carol nodded agreement and moments later he returned with three

cans of Boddington's.





Scott moved a large ginger cat and settled his bulky frame in the window

seat, reducing the light in the room by at least half. He popped the

top of his beer, but before he drank, he launched into speech. "I was

that glad when I heard you were looking at Barbara Fenwick's murder. I

worried at that case for the best part of two years. It kept me awake

nights. I'll never forget the look on her mother's face when I arrived

with the news we'd found the body. It still haunts me. I always

thought the answer was out there, we just didn't have what it took to

get it. So when I got the call and I heard it was the profiling task

force ... well, I have to say, my hopes have been raised. What's drawn

you to Barbara?"





Tony decided to take advantage of Scott's enthusiasm and offer him

frankness. "This is a somewhat unorthodox investigation," he began.





"You may have read about the murder of one of my squad."





Scott nodded his big head sadly. "Aye, I saw. You have my sympathies."





"What you won't have read is that she was working on a theory that there

is an unsuspected serial killer of teenage girls on the loose and that

he's been doing it for a long time. It started off as a classroom

exercise, but Shaz couldn't sit on it. My team and I think that's why

she was killed. Unfortunately, West Yorkshire Police don't agree. The

main reason for that is the person Shaz put in the frame." He glanced

at Carol, ready for some seemingly official back-up.





"There is a significant amount of circumstantial evidence that points to

Jacko Vance," she said baldly.





Scott's eyebrows climbed. The telly man?" He let out a soft whistle

and his hand went automatically to the cat, stroking its head

rhythmically. "I'm not surprised they didn't want to know. So how does

this connect to Barbara Fen wick?"





Carol outlined how Leon's researches had turned up the clipping that had

brought them to Gordon Scott's case files. When she had finished, Tony

said, "What we hoped was that there was stuff that never made it on to

paper. I know from working with Carol what it's like on a murder squad.





You have a feeling in your water, hunches that you never confide to

anybody except your partner, never mind put in a memo. We wondered what

the gut feelings were among the officers who actually worked the case."





Scott took a long draught of beer. "Of course you did. And quite

right, too. The trouble is, there's bugger all I can tell you. A

couple of times, we got the wrong smell off some of the nonces we had in

for questioning, but it was always something else that they were wound

up about. To be honest, the gut feeling on our team was total

frustration. We just could not get a handle on the bugger. He seemed

to have come out of nowhere and vanished the same way. We ended up

convinced it was someone from off our patch who'd stumbled across the

girl when she was doing a routine bunk off school. And that would sort

of fit in with your idea, wouldn't it?"





"Broadly, except that we think he sets it up a lot more carefully than

that," Tony said. "Oh well, it was worth a try."





"Sir, there didn't seem to be a lot of forensic evidence," Carol

prompted.





"No. That set us back a bit. Truth to tell, I'd no experience of a sex

offender who took that kind of forensic care. Mostly they're

hot-headed, spur of the moment, leave all sorts of traces, go home

covered in mud and blood. But there was almost nothing to work off. The

only distinctive thing was the crushed arm, according to the

pathologist. She wouldn't stick her neck out on paper, but she had this

notion that the girl's arm had been crushed in a vice."





The thought of such cold-blooded torture sent a shiver of unwelcome

echoes through Tony's stomach. "Ah," he said.





Scott struck his forehead with the heel of his hand. "Of course! Vance

lost his arm, didn't he? He was going for the Olympics and he lost his

arm. Perfect sense, why didn't we think of something like that at the

time? God, what an idiot I am!"





"There's no reason why you should have considered it," Tony said,

wishing he meant it, wondering how many lives might have been saved if a

psychologist had been brought in all those years ago.





"Is the pathologist still working?" Carol asked, as ever straight to

the point.





"She's a professor now at one of the London teaching hospitals. I've

got her card somewhere," Scott said, getting to his feet and lumbering

out of the room. "God, why didn't I think more about the arm?"





"It's not his fault, Tony," Carol said.





"I know. I sometimes wonder how many more people have to die before

everybody recognizes psychologists aren't just witch doctors," he said.





"Listen, Carol, in the interests of speed, I think we should get Chris

Devine to follow up on this pathologist. She's desperate to help, and

she's got the experience to know the kind of things she should be

looking for. What do you say?"





"I think that's a good idea. To tell you the truth, I was dreading

telling you that I couldn't go to London now. I need to be around

tonight in case the arsonist decides to have a go."





He smiled. "I remembered." It was probably the first time in his

career as a profiler that something outside the case obsessing him had

impinged. That was the trouble with working with Carol Jordan. She

affected him in ways no one else ever had. When he didn't see her, he

could conveniently forget that. Working this closely, it was impossible

to ignore. He gave her a grave smile. "I'm too scared of upsetting

John Brandon to let you chance blowing the arson collar," he lied.





"I know." She detected the lie, but did not show it. It was neither

the time nor the place for some kinds of truth.





Kay had lost count. She couldn't remember if this was the seventh or

the eighth set of videos she'd inspected. Having drawn the short





straw in the division of the sites, she'd set off on the M1 from Leeds

before dawn and driven all the way to London. Then she turned the car

round and retraced her journey, stopping at every service area she came

to. Now it was late afternoon and she was sitting in yet another

scruffy office, stuffy with stale sweat and smoke, watching jerky images

dancing in front of her as she fast-forwarded through the tapes. She was

awash with bad coffee, her mouth still slimy and fat-flavoured from the

long ago breakfast at Scratchwood Services. Her eyes were gritty and

tired, and she wished she was anywhere else.





At least they'd managed to narrow the time frame down. They reckoned

the earliest Shaz or Vance could possibly have hit the first northbound

services on the motorway was eleven in the morning, the latest seven at

night. Adjusting the times forward for each service area wasn't

difficult.





The tapes took much less running time than real time, since, rather than

taping continuously, the cameras only took a certain number of still

frames per second. Even so, she'd spent hours working her way through

the recordings, fast-forwarding until she saw either a black Volkswagen

Golf or one of the cars registered to Jacko Vance - a silver Mercedes

convertible or a Land Rover. The Golf was common enough to cause

frequent pauses, the other cars turning up less often.





She thought she was faster now than when she'd started. Her eyes were

in tune with what she was searching for, though she feared she was

beginning to flag and worried that might make her miss something

crucial. Forcing herself to concentrate, Kay flicked forward until the

familiar black pram-like shape of another Golf appeared. She slowed to

normal speed, then almost at once she registered that the driver was a

male with grey hair sticking out from under a baseball cap rather than

either of her expected targets so her finger moved towards the

fast-forward button. Then, suddenly, it swerved to the pause button as

she noticed that there was something odd about the man.





But the first thing that struck her on closer scrutiny had nothing to do

with the person who'd climbed out of the driver's seat and headed for

the petrol pump. What Kay spotted was quite different. Although the

car was sitting at an awkward angle to the pumps, she could make out the

last two letters of the number plate. They were identical to the final

digits of Shaz's registration.





"Ah, shit," she breathed softly. She rewound the tape and watched it

again. This time she identified what had caught her eye about the

driver. He was awkwardly left-handed, to the point where he hardly used

his right arm at all. Just as Jacko Vance would inevitably be if he

were using equipment that wasn't specially designed to accommodate his

disability.





Kay studied the tape a few more times. It wasn't easy to make out the

man's features, but she wouldn't mind betting that Carol Jordan would

know someone who could help them over that particular hurdle. Before

the night was over, they'd have something on Jacko Vance that even a

team of highly paid defence lawyers wouldn't be able to get him out of.





And it would be down to her, the best tribute she could pay to a woman

who had been on the way to becoming a friend.





She flipped open her mobile phone and called Carol. "Carol? It's Kay.





I think I might have something your brother would like to see ... "





It wasn't that Chris Devine objected to pathologists having a day off.





What pissed her off royally was that this particular pathologist spent

her free time sitting in the pouring rain in the middle of nowhere

waiting for a glimpse of some bloody stupid bird that was supposed to be

in Norway but had managed to get lost. There was nothing clever about

getting lost, Chris muttered as she felt more rain slide between her

neck and her collar. Bloody Essex, she thought bitterly.





She sheltered from the gusting easterly so she could take another look

at the rough map the bird warden had sketched out for her. She couldn't

be far away now. Why did these bloody hides have to be so

inconspicuous? Why didn't they just make them look like her nan's

house? She had more bloody birds in her back garden than Chris had seen

all afternoon on the marshes. The birds were too flaming sensible to

come out on a day like this, she grumbled as she stuffed the map back in

her pocket and set off round the edge of the copse.





She almost missed the hide, so well was it camouflaged. Chris pulled

back the wooden door and forced the scowl from her face. "Sorry to butt

in," she said to the three people cramped inside, grateful that her head

at least was out of the wind. "Is one of you Professor Stewart?" She

hoped she was in the right place; it was





impossible to tell even genders inside waxed jackets, woolly scarves and

thermal hats.





A gloved hand rose. "I'm Liz Stewart," one of the figures said. "What's

going on?"





Chris sighed with relief. "Detective Sergeant Devine, Metropolitan

Police. I wonder if I could have a word?"





The woman shook her head. "I'm not on call," she said, her Scottish

accent growing stronger in indignation.





"I appreciate that. But it is rather urgent." Chris unobtrusively

edged the door wider so the wind could whip inside the rickety

structure.





"Oh, for God's sake, Liz, go and see what the woman wants," an irritated

male voice said from under one of the other hats. "We're not going to

see anything worthwhile at all if you two stand there screaming like

fishwives."





The grudging professor squeezed past the other two and followed Chris

outside. "There's some shelter under the trees," Professor Stewart

said, pushing past her and scrambling through the undergrowth until they

were out of reach of most of the weather. In the clearing, Chris could

see she was a sharp-featured forty-something with clear amber eyes like

a hawk. "Now, what is all this about?" she demanded.





"You worked a case twelve years ago. An unsolved murder of a teenage

girl in Manchester, Barbara Fenwick. Do you remember it?"





"The girl with the crushed arm?"





"That's the one. The case has cropped up in connection with another

investigation. We think we're looking at a serial killer, and it's

possible that Barbara Fenwick is the only one of his victims where the

body's turned up. Which makes your postmortem pretty significant."





"Which it will still be on Monday morning," the professor said briskly.





"Yeah, but the girl we think he's holding might not make it that long,"

Chris said.





"Ah. You'd better fire away then, Sergeant."





"Retired Superintendent Scott told my colleagues that you had thought,

but didn't put in your report, that the arm looked like it might have

been crushed deliberately in something like a vice rather than

accidentally, is that right?"





"That was my opinion, but it was only speculation. Not the sort of

fanciful thing I'd put in a formal postmortem report unless I had

considerably stronger grounds for my belief," she said repressively.





"But if you were pressed, you'd say that?"





"If I were asked directly if it were possible, yes, I'd have to agree."





"Was there anything else you didn't write down because it was

"fanciful"?" Chris asked.





"Not that I can think of."





"I know you said you didn't put it in your formal report, but would you

have put something in your notes to that effect?"





"Oh yes," the professor said, as if it were the most natural thing in

the world. "That way, if it became important later, the prosecution

could introduce it more readily."





Chris closed her eyes momentarily in a short prayer. "And have you

still got your notes?"





"Of course. In fact, I've got something even better than that."





The cafe of the motorway services at Hartshead Moor on the M62 had never

been anyone's idea of a good Saturday night out, which made it perfect

for their purposes. The ad hoc investigative team was now augmented by

Chris Devine, who had slotted in as if she'd always been there. Already,

it seemed she and Carol were about to sign up as blood sisters, both

because of their common experiences in the Job and because they were the

nearest thing the team had to senior officers.





The group had colonized a distant corner with no prospect of being

overheard or disturbed since it was right on the border of the smoking

area. Leon, dispirited at drawing a blank, was buoyed up by Kay's

results. But Simon's face was showing signs of strain inevitable in a

man whose name was on the wanted list, turned on by the very group who

had given him a sense of community. Tony wondered how long the younger

man could stand it without his judgement slipping dangerously.





Carol cut into his thoughts. "I've arranged for Kay to meet a friend of

my brother who can enhance these pictures for us, to cut the margin of

doubt to the bone."





"You're not coming along?" Kay asked, looking slightly worried.





"Carol has responsibilities in East Yorkshire tonight," Tony said. "Is

that a problem, Kay?"





She looked embarrassed. "Not a problem, not as such. It's just well, I

don't know this bloke, and he's doing this as a favour, right?"





"That's right," Carol said. "Michael says he owes him."





"It's just that ... well, if I want to push a bit harder, you know, if I

don't think he's going to the max because he can't be bothered, or it's

going to cost too much, I can't actually lean on him the way Carol

could."





"She's got a point," Chris affirmed from the smoking table she was

occupying with Leon. "She's not even the one who's asked for the

favour. And it's Saturday night. Even computer nerds must have

something better to do than a favour for somebody who can't be bothered

to turn up in person. That'll be how it looks. I think Carol should be

there."





Carol stirred her sludgy coffee. "You're right. I can't fault your

logic. But I can't afford to be off my patch tonight." She glanced at

her watch and made rapid calculations.





"No, Carol," Tony said hopelessly, knowing already he was wasting his

breath.





"If we left now ... we could be there by nine ... I could be back in

Seaford by one at the latest. And nothing ever happens before then ..





." Coming to a decision, Carol grabbed her coat and bag. "All right.





Come on, Kay, we're off." As they walked towards the door with Kay

scrambling to catch up, Carol turned. "Chris good hunting."





"So what do we do now?" Leon demanded aggressively, lighting another

cigarette from the butt of the one he'd been smoking. "I feel like I've

wasted a whole day fucking about with motorway cameras. I want to be

doing something worthwhile, you know?"





Tony was glad Chris Devine had come to join them; he had a feeling he

was going to have to rely on her experience now the others were starting

to fray round the edges. "Nobody's been wasting their time, Leon. We've

come a long way today," he said calmly. "We need to build on that. The

information Chris has got from the pathologist is a big step forward.





But on its own, it's still not worth a whole lot. He profiles right.





Everything we learn about him puts another tick in the box. But we're

still in the realms of supposition."





"Even with a victim with a crushed right arm?" Simon asked

incredulously. "Come on, that's got to be a clincher. What more do we

need, for God's sake?"





"Given the kind of lawyers Jack the Lad is going to be able to





afford, we'd be laughed out of court always supposing we got that far,"

Tony said. "I'm sorry, but that's the way it is."





"The crushed arm is good stuff," Chris said. "But it's not a lot of use

as an isolated case. What we need is something to compare it with. Only

so far there haven't been any bodies, right?" The others nodded. "But

you reckon he'd got another one just before Shaz fronted him up? Well

then, chances are he'd started on her but he hadn't finished. So we

find her, we tie her to him, and we've got him. Anything wrong with

that?"





"No, except we don't know where he keeps them before he kills them,"

Tony said.





"Course we don't. Or do we?"





If they'd been dogs, their ears would have pricked up. "Go on," Tony

encouraged her.





The great thing about being a dyke my age is that when I was getting

into the scene, everyone who had a job was in the closet. Now, half the

women I used to drink with are bosses all over the shop. One of them

just happens be a partner in the agency that handles Jacko's publicity."





She pulled out a sheaf of fax paper from inside her jacket. "Jacko's

schedule for the last six weeks. Now, unless he's Superman or his wife

is in on this, there's only one area of the country he could possibly be

keeping this kid." She leaned back and watched them cotton on to what

had leapt out at her.





Tony ran his hand through his hair. "I know he's got a cottage up

there. But it's a huge area. How can we narrow it down?"





"He could be using his own place," Leon said.





"Yeah," Simon butted in eagerly. "Let's get up there, take a look at

this hideaway."





"I don't know," Chris said. "He's been so careful about everything

else, I can't believe he'd do something so risky."





"Where's the risk?" Tony demanded. "He brings the girls there under

cover of darkness, they're never seen or heard from again. There's

never a trace of the bodies. But Jack the Lad does volunteer work at

the hospital in Newcastle. They must have an incinerator. He's always

pushing the image of himself as being a man with the common touch. I'd

guess he regularly pops down to the boiler room, having a natter with

the lads. And if he helps them load the incinerator from time to time,

well, who's going to notice the extra bag of body parts?"





A chilled silence fell over the group. Tony scratched the stubble on

his chin. "I should have worked this out before now. He's a control

freak. The only killing ground he'd trust would be one he had total

control over."





"So let's go." Simon said, pushing his cup away and reaching for his

jacket.





"No," Tony said firmly. "Simon, this is not the time for Action Man

tactics. We need to plan carefully here. We can't just go charging in

mob-handed and hope what we find justifies the action. His lawyers

would make mincemeat of us. We need to have a strategy."





"That's easy for you to say, man," Leon said. "You're not the one the

cops are looking to arrest. You can sleep in your own bed at night.





Simon needs this to be sorted."





"All right, all right," Chris said mildly. "It wouldn't hurt to do a

trawl locally with pictures of Donna Doyle. Looking at his timetable,

she must have got there under her own steam. I bet he sends them up on

the train or the coach. We need to blitz the bus terminal and the train

station, talk to the staff. And the locals. If there's a small local

station near to Jack the Lad's hideaway, somebody might have seen her

getting off the train."





Simon stood up, dark eyes burning. "So what are we waiting for?"





"No point in hitting it before morning," Chris said.





"It's a two and a half hour drive from here. We're not doing anything

better, are we? Let's go now, find a cheap hotel and get cracking first

thing in the morning. You up for it, Leon?"





Leon stubbed out his cigarette. "Long as I don't have to go in your

car. What're you driving, Chris?"





"You wouldn't like my music. We'll take all the cars. OK, Tony?"





"OK. Provided you stay well away from his house. I have your word on

that, Chris?"





"You got my word, Tony."





"That go for you two? Bearing in mind Chris is technically your senior

officer?"





Leon scowled but gave a grudging nod. Simon, too, conceded. "OK. I

probably shouldn't be making the decisions anyway."





"What've you got planned, Tony?" Chris asked.





"I'm going home to draw up a full profile based on all we know now. I

can't say I blame you for wanting to hare off up the A1, but if Carol

and Kay come back with the goods, I'm proposing we go to West Yorkshire

first thing in the morning and persuade them to make this official. So,

nothing except local inquiries until we've spoken. OK?"





Chris nodded sombrely. "Trust me, Tony. Shaz meant too much to me to

risk fucking this up."





If she'd been trying to take the gung-ho madness out of the two male

officers' eyes, she succeeded. Even Leon stopped bouncing on the balls

of his feet. "I hadn't forgotten that," Tony said. "Or how much she

wanted to catch Jack the Lad."





"I know," Chris said. "Fucking mad bitch, she'd have loved this."





Once upon a time she'd understood most of what there was to know about

computers, Carol thought wistfully. Back around 1989, she was almost as

much of a whizz with CP/M and DOS as her brother. But she'd gone into

the police force and it had eaten up her life. While she'd been getting

to grips with the Police and Criminal Evidence Act, Michael had been

assimilating software and hardware that often moved forward on a daily

basis. Now she was the one-eyed woman in the kingdom of 20/20 vision.





She knew enough to crunch numbers and process words, to retrieve lost

files from limbo and to rewrite boot files so that a reluctant machine

could be persuaded to talk to its user. But ten minutes with her

brother and his mate Donny and she knew that, these days, this was the

culinary equivalent of being able to boil a kettle. From the look on

Kay's face, it wasn't any better for her. It was just as well she'd

come along, Carol thought. At least she had enough knowledge to know

when the boys were spinning off into a world of their own and the

authority to drag them back to the job in hand.





The two men sitting in front of a computer screen the size of a pub TV

muttered to each other incomprehensibly about video drivers, local buses

and smart caches. Carol knew what the words meant, but she couldn't

connect them to anything they were doing with keyboard and mouse. Donny,

Michael had told her, was the best man in the north when it came to

computer-enhancing photographs or video stills. And he just happened to

work in the same building where Michael's software company had its suite

of offices. And, in spite of Chris's convictions, he was so devoid of a

life that he was thrilled to be dragged away from The X Files and a

microwave dinner to show off his toys.





Carol and Kay looked over their shoulders at the screen. Donny had

already done everything he could with the number plate, yielding

confirmation of the last two letters and a strong probability of a match

with the third. Now he was working on the driver. He'd already tweaked

and twiddled with some full-length shots of the man, pronouncing himself

finally satisfied with one and printing out a couple of colour copies

for the two women to pore over. The more Carol looked, the more

convinced she was that under the Nike baseball cap and behind the

aviator glasses, Jacko Vance was peeking out at her. "What do you

think?" she asked Kay.





"I don't know if you'd pick him out of a line-up, but if you know who

you're looking for, I think you can tell it's him."





Now, without any prompting from them, Donny was working on a head and

shoulders of the man who'd filled the Golf with petrol at lunchtime on

the Saturday Shaz Bowman died. It was hard to find a good shot to work

with because the peak of the cap shaded his face most of the time when

he wasn't actually bending over the fuel tank. Only by advancing one

frame at a time did Donny finally come up with a single shot where the

man in the cap glanced swiftly up at the pump to check how much petrol

he'd taken.





Watching Donny painstakingly improve the quality of the picture was

agonizing. Carol couldn't keep her eyes off her watch, gripped with the

knowledge that she should be elsewhere and if anything happened in

Seaford she'd be in deep shit. The minutes crawled by while the

powerful processor drove a search through the computer's massive memory

for the next best alternative to the pixels on the screen. Although it

was making more calculations per second than the human brain could

comfortably comprehend, the computer seemed to Carol to take forever. At

last, Donny turned away from the screen and pushed his own baseball cap

back on his head. "Best you're going to get," he said. "Funny, he

looks familiar. Is he supposed to?"





"Can you print me off half a dozen copies?" Carol said. She felt mean

ignoring his good-natured question, but it wasn't the time or place to

tell Donny that, apart from cheeks that were undeniably too chubby, the

face he'd recreated was that of the nation's favourite TV personality.





Michael was either quicker on the uptake or more familiar with the

medium. "He looks like Jacko Vance, that's what's got you confused,

Donny," he said innocently.





"Yeah, right, that dickhead," Donny said, swinging round in his chair

and blinking at the women. "Fucking hell, shame it's not him you're

going to arrest. You'd be doing the world a favour, getting that shit

he does off the box. Sorry I couldn't get a better head shot, but there

wasn't a lot to go on. Where did you say you got the tape from?"





"M1 services. Watford Gap," Kay said.





"Yeah, right. Pity you weren't looking for your man in Leeds.





"Leeds?" Carol leapt on the word. "Why Leeds?"





"Cos that's where the state-of-the-art CCTV development company is.





Seesee Visions. They are the total business. They think civil

liberties is that posh but polite department store in London." He

laughed at his own bad joke. "Double wicked fuckers, they are. You

can't miss them. That sodding great smoked glass monolith just after

the end of the motorway. You want somebody coming off the M1 at Leeds,

they've got it taped."





"What do you mean, somebody coming off at Leeds?" Carol's fingers were

twitching with the desire to grab Donny by the shirt and make him get to

the point.





Donny cast his eyes upwards as if he were tired of dealing with mental

defectives. "Right. History lesson. Nineteenth-century Britain.





Little pockets of mains water supply, gas providers, railway companies.





Gradually, they all linked up to make national utilities. With me so

far?"





"And there's me thinking nerds knew nothing about the Victorian era

apart from Charles Babbage," Carol snapped. "OK, Donny, we did the

Industrial Revolution at school. Can we get to CCTV?"





"OK, OK, be chill. CCTV is kind of like the baby utilities were then.





But soon it won't be. Soon we're going to have all these inner-city

systems linking up with private security systems and motorway cameras

and we're going to have a national network of CCTV. And these systems

will be so finely tuned that they can recognize you or your wheels and

if you're not supposed to be some place, then the big fuck-off security

guards are gonna remove you. Like if you're a convicted shoplifter and

Marks and Sparks don't want you hanging out in their food hall, or

you're a known perv and your local launderette doesn't want you in there

ogling the knickers' He made a throat-cutting gesture.





"So what exactly has all this got to do with the M1?"





"Seesee Vision are the masters of the universe when it comes to

leading-edge techno. And they test all their new gear on the traffic

flow off the M1. Their stuff is so well developed they can give you a

high-res picture of the drivers and the front-seat passengers, never

mind baby stuff like number plates." Donny shook his head in wonder. "I

went for a job there, but I didn't like it. You could tell it was

seagull city."





"Seagull city?" Carol asked faintly.





"The bosses fly in, do a lot of screaming, grab everything worth having,

crap over everybody and fly out again. Not my scene."





"Do you think they'd co-operate with me?"





"They'd wet their pants. They're desperate to make a big impression on

your lot. When this national network finally creaks into being, they

want to be in the driving seat. The company of choice."





Carol looked at her watch. It was after ten. She should be heading

back to Seaford, on the spot if her team had to swing into action.





Besides, no one in authority would be at Seesee Vision at this time of

night.





Donny spotted her glance and read her mind. "There'll be somebody there

this time of night, if that's what you're wondering. Give them a bell.





You got nothing to lose."





But Donna Doyle might, Carol thought, catching Kay's pleading look. And

besides, Leeds was halfway between Manchester and Seaford. Her team

were grown-ups. It wouldn't be the first time they'd had to think for

themselves.





First, the victims. It was always the place to start. The problem here

was to convince anyone that there were victims. It was always possible

that they were wrong, Tony realized. They so badly wanted Shaz to have

been right, they so desperately needed to be instrumental in putting a

stop to the person who had killed her that they might all be deluding

themselves about the value of the material they had uncovered. It was

almost conceivable that the circumstantial evidence piling up against

Jacko Vance was just that and no more. But that way madness lay.





Madness and the prospect of poor Simon being arrested as soon as he

crossed the threshold of his own home. "The victims," Tony said. He

stared at the laptop screen and started to type.





THE CASE FOR A SERIAL OFFENDER





The first known victim in this putative cluster is Barbara Fenwick whose

murder took place twelve years ago (see attached summary prepared by DC

Leon Jackson for crime details). We can say with some degree of

certainty that this was the first killing by this perpetrator since

there is no previous record of this signature behaviour, namely the

pulverizing of the lower right arm. This is clearly signature

behaviour; there is no need to inflict such an injury in order to commit

sexual assault and murder. It is extraneous, it is ritualistic and

therefore it is safe to assume that it has particular significance for

this offender. Given the ceremonial nature of this signature behaviour,

it is likely that he has used the same implement to produce these

injuries in all his killings; other victims could therefore be expected

to display very similar disfigurement.





There is at least one other indication that this was a first murder. The

killer had chosen what he thought was a sufficiently isolated and safe

place to carry out his crime undisturbed, but he was in fact almost

caught in the act. This will have frightened him considerably and he

will have taken immediate steps to secure his future killing grounds.





That he was successful in this is shown by the fact that no bodies have

been recovered from his subsequent victims.





In the absence of bodies, what possible grounds can there be for

assuming a serial offender?





He paused and referred back to the list of common features that Shaz had

presented to the profiling team what felt like an age ago. The least he

could do was make sure the work she'd left wasn't wasted. With a few

changes and additions, he typed in the list then continued.





While two or three common features are to be expected with any such

grouping, the number and congruence we can identify here is of far too

high a level to be coincidental. Of particular importance is the degree

of physical similarity between the victims. They could be sisters.





Perhaps more significantly, they could also be sisters of a woman called

Jillie Woodrow as she looked fifteen or sixteen years ago, when she

first became the earliest known lover of Jacko Vance, our prime suspect.





It is not coincidence, in my opinion, that Vance was robbed of a

brilliant athletic career when he lost his lower right arm in an

accident that crushed it beyond hope of restoration.





Further, the date of the killing of Barbara Fenwick was a mere fourteen

weeks after Jacko Vance's accident. For much of that time, he was in

hospital recovering from his injuries and subsequently undergoing

extensive physiotherapy. It was during this hospitalization that Jillie

Wood-row took the opportunity to terminate what had become an

increasingly oppressive and unwelcome relationship (see appended notes

of interview with JW, conducted by DC Simon Mcneill). The combined

stress of these two events would be sufficient to trigger a sexual

homicide in one who was predisposed to realize his sociopathic responses

in violent behaviour.





He has never released his sexual impulses in a normal fashion since. His

extremely high-profile marriage is a sham, his wife being a lesbian

whose ' assistant' is in fact her lover and has been since

before the wedding took place. Vance and his wife have never had sexual

intercourse and his wife assumes he uses '-class call girls' to

provide him with a sexual outlet. There is no suggestion that she has

any suspicion of his homicidal activities.





When Vance's early life is set against the criteria that experience has

demonstrated are common features among homicidally active sociopaths, a

remarkable degree of commonality is obvious. We have witness interviews

that attest to a difficult relationship with a rejecting mother, an

often absent father whom the subject was desperate to impress, bullying

of younger children, cruelty to animals and sadistic, controlling sexual

behaviour, and evidence of powerful and perverse sexual fantasies. His

sporting prowess can be identified as a massive overcompensation for the

worthlessness he felt in every other area of his life, and the loss of

that prowess as a devastating blow to his extremely fragile self-esteem.





In those circumstances, women would be the obvious victim gender. He

would perceive his mother and subsequently his fiancee as having

emasculated him. But he is far too intelligent to vent his rage on the

obvious targets, and so he has assumed a series of surrogates. These

are girls who bear a strong resemblance to Jillie Woodrow at the age

when he first seduced her.





It should be borne in mind that captured serial killers have in the main

been above average intelligence, in some cases well above. We should

not therefore be surprised that uncaught and unsuspected serial

offenders exist who are using their greater intelligence more

effectively. Jacko Vance is, in my opinion, an example of this

principle in action.





He leaned back in his chair. So much for the psychology. He'd have to

draw up a more detailed table of corresponding preconditions, but that

wouldn't take long. Added to the hard evidence he hoped Carol and Kay

would produce that night, he felt sure that there was enough material to

make certain that within twelve hours, West Yorkshire would have started

to take Jacko Vance seriously.





Detective Sergeant Tommy Taylor knew a pile of crap when he saw it. And

surveilling part-time firemen was the biggest pile of crap he'd seen in

a very long time. He'd spent the night before watching Raymond Watson,

which in effect meant watching Raymond Watson's house. It wasn't as if

it was packed with architectural detail to keep the mind active. A

bog-standard terraced house with a pocket handkerchief front garden that

boasted a tired rose bush contorted by the north-east winds into a shape

some modern sculptors would have given their eye teeth to achieve.





Flaked paintwork, scabby varnish on the front door.





Watson had come home at eleven the night before, after the last race at

the dog track. There was no meeting tonight, so he'd arrived home just

after seven, according to the seconded uniforms who'd been keeping an

eye out in their mufti. Since then, nothing. Unless you counted

putting out the milk bottles as a major event.





The lights had gone off about ten minutes after that. An hour later,

there was no sign of life anywhere. The back streets of Seaford weren't

noted for their liveliness after midnight. The only thing that was

going to get Raymond Watson out of his kip now was a major fire, Taylor

reckoned. He grunted and shifted in the car seat, scratching his balls

and sniffing his fingers afterwards. Bored shitless, he flicked the

switch on his personal radio and called Di Earn-shaw. "Owt happening

your end?" he asked.





"Negative," came the reply.





"If Control come through to you with news of a fire that our lads are

getting called out on, give me a shout on the PR, OK?"





"Why? Are you leaving the car on foot pursuit?" She sounded eager.





Probably as bored as him, excited by the thought of some action even at

second hand.





"Negative," Taylor said. "I need to stretch my legs. These fucking

sardine tins weren't built for the likes of me. Like I said, anything

doing, give me a shout. Over and out."





He turned the key in the ignition. The engine coughed to life, sounding

freakishly noisy in the quiet side street. Bollocks to Carol Jordan's

daft ideas. Less than a mile away there was a club that kept late

doors, catering mainly for the sailors off the foreign ships. There was

a pint there with Tommy Taylor's name on it, unless he was very much

mistaken. It was time he checked out the possibility.





Carol and Kay followed the security guard down blindingly white

corridors. He opened a door and stood back, waving them into a large,

dimly lit room. Computer monitors occupied almost every horizontal

surface. A young woman in jeans and a polo shirt, hair dyed platinum

blonde and cut flat to her head, glanced over her shoulder, registered

the new arrivals and turned back to the screen she'd been engrossed in.





Fingers tapped keys and the display changed. Carol caught movement in

her peripheral vision and turned her head. A tall man in a suit that

screamed money was perched on the edge of a computer desk over to one

side. What she'd caught was him unfolding his arms and dropping his

hands in preparation for rising to greet them.





He took a step towards them, pushing a persistent cowlick of mid-brown

hair out of his eyes. If he was going for boyish, Carol thought, he'd

missed it by about a generation. "Detective Chief Inspector Jordan," he

said, clearly relishing the bass resonance of his voice. "And Detective

Constable Hallam. Welcome to the future."





God help me, Carol thought. "You must be Philip Jarvis," she said,

forcing a smile. "I'm impressed and grateful that you were prepared to

help me out at this time of night."





"Time waits for no man," he said, as proudly as if he'd coined the

phrase. "Or woman, come to that. We recognize the importance of your

work and, like you, we operate twenty-four hours a day. We are, after

all, in the same business, the business of crime prevention and, when

that fails us, catching those responsible."





"Mmm," Carol murmured noncommittally. It was clearly a prepared speech

that placed no reliance on a response.





Jarvis smiled benevolently, revealing the sort of brilliant white dental

work more common in New York than Yorkshire. "This is the viewing

room," he said with a sweep of his arm, undaunted by the obviousness of

his statement. "It's fed either from our fully automated library or by

live feeds from the many cameras we have being road-tested on the site.





The operator chooses the source and summons the images he or she wants

to look at."





He ushered Carol and Kay forward until they were standing behind the

woman. Close up, Carol could see her skin was older than her face,

faded to unhealthy by the lack of natural light and the radiation from

the monitors. "This is Gina," Jarvis announced. He made her sound like

royalty. "When you told me the date and time period you were interested

in and the vehicle index numbers that you wanted to know about, I got

Gina on to it right away."





"As I said, I really appreciate this. Have you had any luck?"





"Luck doesn't enter into it, Chief Inspector," Jarvis said with

throwaway arrogance. "Not with a leading-edge system like ours. Gina?"





Gina tore her eyes from the screen and pushed off with her feet,

spinning round to face them, grabbing a sheet of paper from the desk.





"Seventeen minutes past two on the afternoon in question." Her voice

was clipped and efficient. "The black Volkswagen Golf left the M1

heading for the city centre. Then, at eleven thirty-two p. m." the

silver Mercedes convertible did exactly the same thing. We can supply

timed and dated tapes and still photographs of both events."





"Is it possible to identify the drivers of either vehicle?" Kay asked,

trying to keep the excitement out of her voice and failing. Gina

flicked an interested eyebrow upwards and stared.





"Obviously, the daytime shots pose fewer problems in that respect,"

Jarvis butted in. "But we're using very high-end experimental media

with the night filming at present, and with our computer enhancement

technology, it would be possible to come up with surprisingly good

images."





"If you knew who it was you were looking at, you would be able to

recognize them. If you were planning on doing a "does anyone know this

man" on Crimewatch UK, you might have one or two problems," Gina

qualified.





"You say this system's experimental. How well do you think this

evidence would stand up in court?" Carol asked.





"One hundred per cent on the vehicles. More like a seventy-five per

cent chance on the drivers," Gina said.





"Come on now, Gina, let's not be so pessimistic. It depends, like so

much evidence, on how it's presented to the jury," Jarvis protested.





"I'd happily testify that I'd stake my reputation on the reliability of

the system."





"And you're a qualified expert witness, are you, sir?" Carol asked. She

wasn't trying to put him on the spot, but time was short and she needed

to know how firm was her ground.





"I'm not, no, but some of my colleagues are."





"Like me," Gina said. "Look, Ms. Jordan, why don't you look at what

we've got and see if that isn't enough to help you get the corroborative

evidence so it won't depend on what a jury thinks about our technology?"





When she left half an hour later, Kay was clutching a bundle of video

tape and laser-printed stills that both women knew in their bones would

corner Jacko Vance. If Donna Doyle remained alive, they were her last

best hope. Carol could hardly wait to tell Tony. She looked at her

watch when she got back to the car. Half past midnight. She knew he'd

want to see what she had, but she needed to get back to Seaford. And

Kay could always take the material over to him now. Carol stood by her

car, undecided.





To hell with it, she thought. She really wanted to talk over the

evidence with Tony. He'd only get one shot at Mccormick and Wharton and

she needed to make sure he'd prepared a case that would speak directly

to a copper's idea of evidence.





She had her mobile if they really needed her, after all.





Detective Constable Di Earnshaw pushed her shoulders hard back against

the car seat, thrusting her pelvis forward in a vain attempt to loosen

her stiff spine and find a comfortable position in the unmarked CID car.





She wished she'd been able to bring her own little Citroen whose seat

seemed moulded to her contours. Whoever had designed the police

Vauxhall had obviously been a hell of a lot narrower in the hips and

longer in the leg than she had any hope of ever achieving.





At least the discomfort kept her awake. There was a kind of spiteful

pride in Di's determination to stay on the job. She was as convinced as

Tommy Taylor that these stakeouts were a total waste of time and money,

but she reckoned there were more subtle and effective ways of

demonstrating that to the powers that be than skiving off. She knew her

sergeant well enough by now to have a pretty shrewd idea of how he was

passing the weary hours as night crawled relentlessly toward dawn. If

Carol Jordan found out, he'd be back in uniform so fast he wouldn't know

what had hit him. CID was such a gossip factory, she was bound to find

out sooner or later. If not on this job, then on another, perhaps one

that actually counted.





Di wouldn't dream of doing anything so obvious to undermine Jordan's

authority. More in sorrow than in anger, that would be her line. The

pitying smiles behind Jordan's back, the back-stabbing, "I shouldn't

really say this, but ... " at every opportunity. Make it look like every

cock-up emanated from Jordan's orders, every success from the troops'

initiatives. There was almost nothing as destructive as constant

undermining. She should know. She'd experienced plenty of it in her

years with the East Yorkshire Police.





She yawned. Nothing was going to happen. Alan Brinkley was tucked up

in bed with his wife inside their pretentious modern box on a so-called

executive development with ideas above its station. Never mind that it

would be easier to keep clean and maintained, Di preferred her little

trawler man terraced cottage down by the old docks, even though they

were now a tourist trap heritage centre. She loved the cobbled streets

and the salt on the air, the sense that generations of Yorkshirewomen

had stood on those doorsteps and scanned the horizon for their men. She

should be so lucky, she thought with a moment's self-hatred.





She checked her watch against the clock on the dashboard. In the ten

minutes that had passed since she'd last done it, the two had managed to

remain precisely five seconds out of sync. Yawning, she switched on her

small portable radio. Hopefully the phone-in she personally called

prole-speak would be over and the DJ would be playing some decent

sounds. Just as Gloria Gaynor stridently revealed that as long as she

knew how to love, she knew she'd stay alive, soft light abruptly

appeared behind the four frosted glass panels of the mock-Georgian

fanlight in the Brinkleys' front door. Di grabbed the steering wheel

tightly and sat up hurriedly. Was this it? Or was it insomnia pushing

someone towards a cup of tea?





Just as suddenly as it had appeared, the light vanished. Di slumped

back with a sigh, then from under the garage door, a thin rope of

brightness stretched across the driveway. Startled, she punched the off

button on the radio and wound down the car window, letting the raw night

air flood her airways and sharpen her senses. Yes, there it was. The

unmistakable cough of a car engine.





Within moments, the garage door shuddered upwards and the car rolled

forward on to the drive. It was Brinkley's car, no mistake. Or rather,

it was the car on which Brinkley had only ever paid three hire-purchase

instalments and which would be snatched back just as soon as the repo

men figured out how to grab it without actually breaking into Brinkley's

garage. As she watched, Brinkley himself got out of the car and walked

back to the garage, reaching inside presumably to hit the button that

closed the door behind him.





"Oh boy," Di Earnshaw said, winding up her window. She pressed the

record button on her personal microcassette recorder and said excitedly,

"Alan Brinkley is now leaving his home by car at one twenty-seven a. m."





Dropping the tape machine on the seat beside her, she grabbed the

personal radio that was meant to keep her in close touch with Tommy

Taylor. "This is Tango Charlie. Tango Alpha, do you read me? Over."





She started her engine, careful to avoid the reflex of turning on her

lights. Brinkley had pulled off the drive now and was driving out of

the cul-de-sac, signalling a right turn. She eased her foot off the

clutch, still driving without lights, and picked him up on the winding

avenue that ran through the housing development and out to the main

road.





She clicked the radio as she drove, repeating her message to her

sergeant. "Tango Charlie to Tango Alpha. Subject on the move, do you

read me? Tango Alpha, do you read me? Over." At the main road,

Brinkley turned left. She counted to five, then switched on her lights

and turned after him. He was heading for the city centre three miles

away, keeping his speed steady, just above the limit. Not so careful

he'd be pulled on suspicion of over-cautious drunk driving, not so fast

he'd attract a tug for speeding. "Tango Charlie to Tango Alpha." She

swore silently at her errant boss. She needed back-up and he wasn't

there. She thought about calling in to control, but they'd only send a

troop of patrol cars that would scare off any arsonist for three

counties.





"Oh, shit," she complained as Brinkley turned off the main road into the

dimly lit streets of a small industrial estate. It looked very much as

if this was it. Turning off her lights again, she followed cautiously.





As the high walls of the units closed around her, she decided she had to

call for uniformed back-up. She turned up the '





volume on her police radio and picked up the mike. "Delta Three to

control, over?"





There was a crackle of static, then nothing. Her heart sank as she

realized she was in one of a handful of radio shadows that peppered the

city centre. She might as well have been in a black hole for all the

chance she had of raising back-up. There was nothing else for it. She

was on her own.





Donna Doyle no longer felt any pain. She was swimming through a warm

soup of delirium, revisiting memories through a distorting lens. Her

dad was still alive, alive and throwing her up into the air in the park

where the trees waved at her. Their branches turned into arms and Donna

was in the centre of a ring of friends playing party games. Everything

was bigger than usual, because she was only six and things always loomed

larger when you were little. The colours bled into each other and it

was Well Dressing week, the carnival floats melting over the streets

like jellies left out in the sun.





And there she was at the heart of the parade, on a dais in a pick-up

truck covered in crepe-paper flowers that swelled big as cabbage roses

in her fevered derangement. She was the Rose Princess, radiant in

layers of stiff petticoat, the glory of the occasion cancelling out the

discomfort of the itchy fabric on the warm summer afternoon and the

plastic tiara cutting into the soft flesh behind her ears. Through the

misty dislocation between dream and reality Donna wondered why the sun

was burning with such tropical fervour that it made her sweat and then

shiver.





Outside her consciousness, the swollen, discoloured meat that hung

uselessly down by her side continued to decay, sending more poisons into

her body, continually shifting the balance between toxicity and

survival. The rotting stink and the corrupt flesh were only the outward

signs of a deeper putrefaction.





Her eager body couldn't wait for death to begin the business of

decomposition.





Getting out of the car to close the garage door, Alan Brinkley had

noticed his breath puff white on the night air. It was a bitter one,

all right. Winter was gripping tight. Just as well he'd got one

earmarked that didn't involve a long walk. The last thing he needed was

fingers numbed with cold fumbling about their work. But there was

nothing like a good fire to warm a man to the bone, he'd thought with an

ironic smile as he revved the car engine to encourage the heater to

deliver its scarlet promise of warmth.





His target was a specialist paint factory at the far end of a small

industrial estate on the edge of town. For once, he could avoid the

walk from his chosen parking spot because the unit next to his goal was

a body shop. There were always half a dozen cars parked outside in

varying stages of being re sprayed or restored after an accident. One

more wouldn't be noticeable. Not that there was anyone to notice. He

happened to know for a fact that the guard employed to patrol the estate

was never there between two and three thirty. Brinkley had watched him

often enough to know that the guy was a victim of greedy bosses. He had

too many premises to protect and not enough time to keep an eye on them

properly.





He turned into the narrow canyon between tall warehouses that led into

the estate and nosed slowly down the access road that led to the body

shop. He killed the engine and lights then double-checked that none of

the items in his kit had slipped out of his pocket. They were all

there: the string, the brass cigarette lighter smelling of petrol, the

packet of seventeen cigarettes, the dog-eared book of matches, last

night's evening paper, his seven-bladed Swiss Army knife and a crumpled

oil-stained handkerchief. He leaned across and took the small but

powerful torch out of the glove box Three deep breaths with eyes closed

and he was ready.





He got out of the car and glanced quickly around. His gaze swept over

the cars surrounding the body shop. He saw without seeing the nose of a

Vauxhall sitting in the shadow of a warehouse just on the curve of the

access road. He failed to register that he hadn't passed it moments

before since there was no thrum of an engine or blur of lights to alert

him. Certain there was nothing else moving in the landscape, he cut

across the Tarmac apron to the paint factory. God, this was going to be

one hell of a display, he thought with satisfaction. He wouldn't mind

betting that when this went, it would take one or two other buildings

with it. Another couple of conflagrations like this and Jim Pendlebury

was going to have to say, "Bugger the budget," and take him on

full-time. It wouldn't be enough even to pay off the interest on the

debts he and Maureen seemed to have accumulated like fleas on a cat, but

it would keep the creditors at bay while he could work out a way to get

their heads above water once and for all.





Brinkley shook his head to clear away the clutter of worry and dread

that engulfed him whenever he allowed their mountain of debt to cast its

shadow over him. He couldn't do this unless his mind was focused, and

whenever he thought about the amount he owed, his head swam and he

couldn't imagine ever making it out the other side in one piece. He

kept telling himself that what he was doing was the only way he had to

survive. The dosser who had died had already given up on that struggle

long before Brinkley had come on the scene. He would be different. He

would survive. So now he had to stifle distractions and concentrate on

achieving the right result without getting caught.





Getting caught would defeat the whole purpose. He'd never get the debts

paid off then. Maureen would never forgive him getting caught.





Brinkley thrust his hand between the industrial-sized rubbish skip and

the wall of the factory, his fingers closing on the bag he'd stowed

there earlier. This time, the office window was his best bet for entry.





The fact that it was wide open to the eyes of anyone who happened to

walk or drive down the access road didn't worry him. None of the units

worked a night shift, the security guard wasn't due for another hour and

the paint factory was the last building before the dead end of a

seven-foot security fence. Nobody would be taking a short cut down

here.





It took less than five minutes to get inside, and only another seven for

his practised hands to set his standard fuse. The cigarette smoke

billowed upwards, to his nostrils the most fragrant aroma around, its

sweetness mingling with the chemical smells of the paint that permeated

the air of the factory. The paint would go up like a pillar of flame in

the desert, Brinkley thought with satisfaction as he backed down the

dark corridor, his eyes never leaving the smouldering fuse.





He felt behind him for the open doorway of the office where he'd come

in. Instead of empty space, his fingers brushed against warm fabric.





Startled, he whirled in his tracks and the glare of a torch hit his eyes

like a thrown glass of wine. Blinded, he tried to blink the light away.





He struggled to back through the doorway, but, disorientated, stumbled

sideways into the wall. The light moved and he heard the door snick

shut.





"You're fucking nicked," a woman's voice said. "Alan Brinkley, I am

arresting you on suspicion of arson ... "





"No!" he roared like a cornered animal, throwing himself forward at the

light. They collided and crashed to the ground in a tangle of limbs and

a crash of office furniture. The woman beneath him struggled and

wriggled like a furious kitten, but he was heavier and stronger, his

upper body developed through years of fire officer's training.





She tried to hit him with the torch, but he easily fended off the blow

with his shoulder, sending the light rolling across the floor where it

came to rest against a filing cabinet, rocking slightly and throwing a

seasick light on the struggle. He could see her face now, her mouth

screwed open in a rictus of determination as she tried to break free. If

he could see her, she could see him, his panicking mind screamed.





Getting caught would defeat the whole purpose. He'd never get the debts

paid off then. Maureen would never forgive him getting caught.





He brought one knee up over her abdomen and leaned on it to crush the

air from her lungs. He pushed his forearm against her throat, pinning

her to the floor. As her tongue thrust out in a desperate fight for

air, he grabbed her hair with his free hand and yanked her head forward

against the brace of his forearm. He felt rather than heard something

snap. Suddenly she was limp. The fight was over.





He fell away from her, curling on the floor in a foetal crouch. A





sob rose in his throat. What had he done? He knew the answer well

enough, but he had to repeat the question continually inside his head.





He rolled on to his knees, head hanging like a disgraced dog. He

couldn't leave her there. They'd find her too soon. She needed to be

somewhere else.





A groan dragged from his lips. He forced himself to touch flesh that

already felt dead and cold in his imagination. Somehow he hauled the

woman's body over his shoulders in the traditional fireman's lift.





Staggering to his feet, he lurched through the doorway and back towards

the seat of the fire. He carried on beyond the fuse that now smelled

harsh, on to where cases of paint tins stood on pallets waiting to be

loaded on lorries. The fire would burn hot here, leaving the forensic

people little to go on. There would certainly be nothing left to

connect him to her. He let the body fall loose-limbed to the floor.





Wiping tears from his eyes, Brinkley turned and ran into the welcoming

cold of the night. How had it come to this? How had a few good times,

a taste for the good life, brought him to this place? He wanted to fall

to the ground and howl like a wolf. But he had to get to his feet, get

to the car, answer his pager when it summoned him to the fire station.





He had to get through this. Not for his sake but for Maureen's.





Because getting caught would defeat the whole purpose. He'd never get

the debts paid off then. Maureen would never forgive him getting

caught.





"Shouldn't you be in Seaford?" he'd asked.





"I've got my phone with me. It'll only take me half an hour longer on

the motorway than it does from the cottage. And we need to sort out

what we've got and what comes next."





"You'd better come in, then."





It took Carol longer to read Tony's report than he needed to scan the

photographs and watch the videos she'd brought, but he didn't mind that.





He kept replaying the tape and shuffling the date-stamped photographs, a

tight smile on his lips, fire in his eyes. Eventually, Carol reached

the end. The look of complicity they shared told them both that they

had been right, and now they could demonstrate a case that could no

longer be ignored. "Good work, Doctor," Carol said.





"Good work, Detective Chief Inspector," he echoed.





"Vengeance is mine, saith the profiler."





He bowed his head in acknowledgement. "I wish I'd paid more attention

when Shaz first raised it. Maybe we could have achieved this without

such a high price then."





Carol reached out impulsively and covered his hand with hers. "That's

ridiculous, Tony. No one would have mounted an investigation on the

basis of what she came up with at that classroom session."





"I didn't mean that, exactly." He ran his fingers through his hair. "I

meant that I'm supposed to be a psychologist. I should have seen that

she wasn't going to let it go. I should have discussed it with her,

made her feel that she wasn't being discounted, explored ways we could

have taken the matter further without putting her at risk."





"You might as well say it's Chris Devine's fault," Carol said briskly.





"She knew Shaz was going to interview him and she let her go alone."





"And why do you think Chris is spending her valuable time off tearing

round Northumberland with Leon and Simon? It's not out of a sense of

duty. It's out of a sense of guilt."





"You can't take responsibility for them all. Shaz was a copper. She

should have considered the risk. There was no need for her to go in

like she did, so even if you had tried to stop her, she probably

wouldn't have paid any attention. Let it go, Tony."





He lifted his head and read the compassion in her eyes. He gave a

rueful nod. "We need to go official on this now, if we're going to

avoid accusations that we're as out of control as Shaz was."





Carol slipped her hand away from his. "I'm glad you said that, because

I'm starting to feel really edgy about uncovering hard evidence like

this without any formal relationship to the investigation and no chain

of custody on any of the physical evidence apart from





"It was in my

handbag, Guv." I keep thinking about the defence counsel making

mincemeat out of me on the witness stand. "And so, DCI Jordan, you

expect the jury to believe that on this maverick quest for justice that

only you, as opposed to the entire West Yorkshire force, could conduct

you just happened upon the one piece of evidence that links my client to

the murder of DC Bowman, a woman he met once for less than an hour? And

what is it your brother does again, Ms. Jordan? Computer wizard, would

that be a fair description? The sort of whizz kid who can make a

digital image say anything he wants it to say?" We need to get this

under





West Yorkshire's umbrella so they can construct the case properly."





"I know. There comes a point where you have to stop playing at being

the Lone Ranger and we're there now. We need to cover your back as

well. In the morning, I'll go straight over to the murder room. How

does that sound?"





"It's not that I want to wash my hands of this, Tony," she said

plaintively. "It's just that we're going to lose it if we don't bring

it in."





He felt a rush of warmth towards her. "I couldn't have achieved any of

this alone. When Jacko Vance faces a jury, it'll be thanks to you

coming on board."





Before she could reply, her phone rang, splitting the closeness between

them like an axe in wood. "Oh, shit," she said, grabbing the handset

and hitting the button. "DCI Jordan."





The familiar voice of Jim Pendlebury came down the line. "We've got

what looks like another one, Carol. Paint factory. It's gone up like a

torch."





"I'll be there as soon as I can, Jim. Can you give me a locus?" Without

being asked, Tony shoved pencil and paper across to her and she

scribbled down directions. "Thanks," she said. She ended the call and

closed her eyes momentarily. Then she hit the memory buttons and was

connected to her communications room. "This is DCI Jordan. Has there

been anything from DS Taylor or DC Earnshaw?"





"Negative, ma'am," came the anonymous voice. "They were supposed to be

maintaining radio silence unless they had something specific to their

stakeouts."





"Will you see if you can raise them and get them to meet me at the site

of the paint factory fire on the Holt Industrial Estate. Thanks. Good

night." She looked at Tony, perplexed. "It seems we were wrong," she

said.





"The arsonist?"





"He's struck again. But neither Tommy Taylor nor Di Earnshaw radioed

in, so it looks as if it was neither of our suspects." She shook her

head. "Back to square one, I guess. I'd better get over there and see

what's going on."





"Good luck," Tony said as she pulled on her mac.





"It's you that'll need the luck, talking round Wharton and Mccormick,"

she said as he followed her down the hall. On the doorstep, she turned

and impulsively put a hand on his arm. "Don't beat'





yourself up about Shaz." She leaned into him and kissed his cheek.





"Concentrate on beating up Jack the Lad."





Then she was gone, leaving nothing behind but a shiver of her scent in

the night air.





Above the blur of sodium and neon, it was a clear, starry night. From

his eyrie on top of the Holland Park house, Jacko Vance stared out

across the London night and imagined the Northumberland stars. There

was a loose end, the only possible strand that could unravel and leave

him stripped of his protective colouring. It was time for Donna Doyle

to die.





He hadn't actually had to kill one for a long time now. It wasn't the

killing he enjoyed. It was the process. The disintegration of a human

being through the degradation of pain and infection. One had been

defiant. She had refused to eat or drink or to use the chemical toilet.





She'd been a challenge, but she hadn't lasted long. She had failed to

consider the infective possibilities of piss and shit all over the

floor. All she'd been thinking about was making herself too disgusting

for him to touch, and she'd failed in that, too.





But he'd have to get rid of this particular Jillie soon. Her existence

had been worrying him, a constant itch like a fleabite under a

waistband. But while the police had been sniffing around after Shaz

Bowman's death, he hadn't wanted to make an untoward move. An

unscheduled dash for Northumberland would have been suspicious. The

swift visit he had made hadn't been long enough to deal with the bitch

properly. Then there had been Tony Hill's involvement to consider. Did

the man have anything or was he just trying to rattle him into doing

precisely the one thing that would expose him?





Either way, she had to go. That she might still be alive was a

possibility that put him in mortal danger. He should have disposed of

her on the night he killed Bowman, but he'd been afraid that his

movements might come under too close scrutiny for comfort. Besides,

he'd been too exhausted to have been certain of making a proper job of

it.





He'd just have to rely on the invisibility of her hiding place, entombed

beneath the stone flags. The only people who knew about the old crypt

were the two builders he'd hired to install the perfectly engineered

opening. Twelve years before, people had still believed in the nuclear

threat. His talk of wanting to create a bomb shelter





had gone down as merely eccentric among the locals. It would, he felt

certain, be long forgotten.





Nevertheless, she had to go. Not tonight. He was filming early in the

morning and he needed what sleep his apprehensions would allow him. But

in a day or two, he could slip away overnight and see to the girl.





He'd have to make the most of it. It would have to be a little while

before he could indulge himself again. A thought flickered into his

mind. If he was ever going to feel safe again, perhaps Tony Hill needed

to be taught a lesson more personal than Shaz Bowman. Jacko Vance gazed

across the city and wondered if there was a woman in his life. He'd

remember to ask his wife in the morning if Hill had said anything over

dinner about a partner.





It had been no hardship killing Shaz Bowman. A repetition with Tony

Hill's girlfriend could only be easier.





Hands thrust deep into the pockets of her mac, collar turned up against

the harsh estuary wind, Carol Jordan stared stonily at the still smoking

ruin of the paint factory. Her vigil was already three hours old, but

she wasn't ready to leave yet. Fire officers, their distinctive yellow

helmets smudged with greasy residue, moved in and out of the fringes of

the building. Somewhere inside that creaking shell, some of them were

trying to penetrate to the seat of the fire. Carol was beginning to

accept that she didn't need the evidence of their eyes to know why Di

Earnshaw hadn't responded to the control room's radio messages telling

her to come to the fire site.





Di Earnshaw had been there already.





Carol heard a car draw to a halt behind her, but she didn't turn her

head. A rustle of the crime scene tapes, then Lee Whitbread moved into

her line of sight, proffering a carton of burger joint coffee. "I

thought you could probably do with this," he said.





She nodded and took the brew wordlessly. "No news, then?" he asked,

his normally eager expression apprehensive.





"Nothing," she said. She flipped off the polystyrene lid and raised the

cup to her lips. The coffee was strong and hot, surprisingly good.





"There's been nothing at the station, neither," Lee said, cupping his

hands round his mouth to light a cigarette. "I bobbed round her house,

just to check, like, that she hadn't knocked off and gone home, but

there's no sign. Bedroom curtains are still shut, so maybe she's got

her head down and earplugs in?" Like every cop, his occupational

pessimism was always tempered with hope when it appeared that a

colleague was in line for a police funeral.





Carol couldn't bring herself to share even the fragile hope of earplugs.





And if she knew Di Earnshaw wasn't the sort to go on the missing list,

Lee must be doubly sure that his fellow DC was out of action for good.





"Have you seen DS Taylor?" she asked.





Lee hid his expression behind his hand as he smoked furiously. "He says

she never called in. He's back at the station, seeing if anything comes

up there."





"I hope he's coming up with something a little more imaginative than

that," Carol said grimly.





Three figures emerged from the dark hulk of the factory and pulled the

breathing apparatus from their mouths. One detached himself from the

other two and walked towards them. A few feet away from her, Jim

Pendlebury came to a halt and pulled off his helmet. "I can't tell you

how sorry I am, Carol."





Carol's head tilted back, then dropped in a tired nod. "No doubt, I

suppose?"





"There's always room for doubt until they've done the business down the

path. lab. But we reckon it's a female, and there's what looks like a

melted down radio next to the body." His voice was soft with sympathy.





She looked up at his compassionate expression. He knew what it was like

to lose people he was nominally responsible for. She wished he could

tell her how long it would take before she could look herself in the

mirror again. "Can I see her?"





He shook his head. "It's still too hot in there."





Carol exhaled, a short, sharp sigh. "I'll be in my office if anyone

wants me." She dropped the carton of coffee, turned away and ducked

under the tapes, hurrying blindly in the direction of her car. Behind

her, the coffee pooled on the Tarmac. Lee Whitbread flicked his

cigarette butt into it, watching it fizz depressingly before dying. He

looked up at Jim Pendlebury. "Me too. We've got a fucking cop killer

to nail now."





Colin Wharton shuffled the pile of video stills together then leaned

across and ejected the tape from the video recorder in the training

suite that Tony's team had abandoned what felt like half a lifetime ago.





Avoiding Tony's eye, he said, "It proves nothing. OK, some body else

was driving Shaz Bowman's car back from London. It could be anybody

behind that disguise. You hardly see anything of the guy's face, and

these computer enhancements ... I don't trust them, and juries are

worse. By the time fucking Rumpole the defence brief's finished, they

assume anything that's come from a computer's been doctored to make it

show what we want it to show."





"What about the arm? You can't doctor that. Jacko Vance has a

prosthesis on his right arm. The man putting the petrol in never uses

that arm at all. It's really noticeable," Tony pressed.





Wharton shrugged. "There could be all sorts of reasons for that. Could

be that the man in question is left-handed. It could be that he'd hurt

his arm in a struggle to overpower Bowman. It could even be that he

knew about that daft bee Bowman had in her bonnet about Jacko Vance, and

he decided to play on that. Punters know about video cameras now, Dr.

Hill. Vance works in the business -do you really think he's not going

to have thought about cameras?"





Tony ran a hand through his hair, gripping the ends as if he were

holding on to his temper. "You've got Vance coming off the motorway at

Leeds in his own wheels at the crucial time. Surely that's too much of

a coincidence?"





Wharton shook his head. "I don't think so. The man has a cottage in

Northumberland. He does all that volunteer work up there. OK, the A1

might be the more direct route, but the M1's a faster road, and it's

easy enough to pick up the A1 north of the city. He might even have

decided he wanted fish and chips at Bryan's on the road," he added with

a pale attempt to lighten the atmosphere.





Tony folded his arms as if this would hold his dark anger inside. "Why

won't you take this seriously?" he asked.





"If Simon Mcneill wasn't on the run, we might not assume everything you

produce is tainted," Wharton said angrily.





"Simon has nothing to do with this. He did not murder Shaz Bowman.





Jacko Vance did. He is a cold-blooded killer. Everything I know about

psychology tells me he killed Shaz Bowman because she threatened to

bring his playhouse down about his ears. We've got pictures of him

driving her car, she's nowhere in sight. Then in his car, covering the

same ground. You've seen the psychological profile I prepared. What

more do we have to do to persuade you to at least take a serious look at

the man?"





The door behind him opened. DCS Dougal Mccormick thrust his massive

torso into the room. His face was the dark red of a





man who'd had too much drink at lunchtime, a sheen of sweat gleaming on

his fleshy cheeks. His light voice had dropped half an octave with the

alcohol. "I thought you were barred from here unless we came for you?"





he added, stabbing a finger at Tony.





"I brought you the evidence to make a case against Shaz Bowman's

killer," Tony said, his voice weary now. "Only Mr. Wharton doesn't

seem to be able to grasp its significance."





Mccormick shouldered his way into the room. "Is that right? What have

you got to say to that, Colin?"





"There's some very interesting motorway petrol station footage that's

been computer-enhanced to show someone else driving Shaz Bowman's motor

the afternoon she was killed." Silently, he spread the pictures out for

Mccormick to check. The Chief Superintendent screwed up his dark eyes

and studied them closely.





"It's Jacko Vance," Tony insisted. "He took her car back to Leeds, then

made his way back to London before driving north again, presumably with

Shaz in the boot."





"Never mind Jacko Vance," Mccormick said dismissively. "We've got a

witness."





"A witness?"





"Aye, a witness."





"A witness to what, exactly?"





"A neighbour who saw your blue-eyed boy Simon Mcneill going round the

back of Sharon Bowman's flat the night she was killed and didn't see him

come back out front again. I've got a team taking his place apart even

as we speak. We were looking for him already, but now there'll be a

public announcement. Maybe you'd know where we could find him, eh, Dr.

Hill?"





"You're the ones who disbanded my squad. How would I know where Simon

is now?" Tony said, his voice a cold disguise for the frustration

boiling inside.





"Ach, well, never mind. We'll be able to put our hand on him sooner or

later. I've no doubt my boys will end up with something better to show

a court than some videos your girlfriend's brother' started up." Seeing

Tony's startled expression, he nodded grimly. "That's right, we know

all about you and DCI Jordan. Do you really think we don't talk to each

other in this job?"





"You keep telling me you're interested in evidence, not supposition,"

Tony said, hanging on to his self-possession by sheer force of will.





"For the record, DCI Jordan is not now nor has she ever





been my girlfriend. And my contention that Vance is the killer does not

rely solely on the video evidence. I'm really not trying to teach you

how to suck eggs, but at least look at the report I've drawn up. There's

solid evidence there."





Mccormick picked the folder up from the table and flicked through it. "A

psychological profile is not what I'd call evidence. Rumour, innuendo,

jealous people getting their own back. That's what you're relying on

here."





"His own wife says he's never slept with her. You're not telling me

that's regarded as normal behaviour in West Yorkshire?"





"She might have all sorts of reasons for lying to you," Mccormick said

dismissively, dropping the report with a soft rustle.





"He met Barbara Fenwick a couple of days before she was abducted and

murdered. It's there, in Greater Manchester Police's murder file. One

of his first ever charity events after the accident that destroyed his

dream. We have photographs of him at later events with other girls who

have disappeared and never been heard from again." Tony's voice was

discouraged now. He'd failed to establish a rapport that would have

allowed the two policemen to back down and consider what he had to say.





Worse than that, he seemed to have alienated Mccormick to the point

where if he said '', Mccormick would retort, ''.





"A man like that meets hundreds of lassies a week and nothing ever

happens to them," Mccormick said, sinking into a chair. "Look, Dr.

Hill, I know it's hard to accept that you've had the wool pulled over

your eyes, with you being a senior Home Office psychologist. But look

at your man Mcneill. He was in love with the lassie, and she doesn't

seem to have felt the same about him. We've only got his word for it

that she was supposed to be meeting him for a drink in advance of their

night out with the other two. He was seen going round the back of the

house at about the time she could have died. We've got his fingerprints

on the glass of the French windows. And now he's done a disappearing

act. You've got to admit, it's a hell of a lot more persuasive than a

stack of circumstantial evidence against a man who's a national hero.





What you're trying to do, Dr. Hill, it's understandable. I'd probably

feel the same as you if it was one of my officers in the frame. But





face it, you made a mistake. You picked a bad apple."





Tony stood up. "I'm sorry we can't see eye to eye on this. I'm

particularly sorry because I think Jacko Vance is holding another

teenage girl prisoner, and she might still be alive. Gentlemen, there

are none so blind as those who will not see. I sincerely hope your

blindness doesn't cost Donna Doyle her life. Now, if you'll excuse me,

I have work to do."





Wharton and Mccormick made no attempt to prevent him leaving. As he

reached the door, Wharton said, "It would better for Mcneill if he

didn't wait to be arrested."





"I don't think so, somehow," Tony said. Out in the car park, he leaned

against the car door, head on folded arms. What the hell was left to

do? The only senior police officer who believed his flimsy evidence was

Carol, and she had no clout with West Yorkshire Police now, that much

was clear. The evidence they still needed was the sort that came from

TV reconstructions and nationwide press appeals; not resources available

to a discredited psychologist, a pair of maverick cops from opposite

ends of the country and a ragbag of junior detectives.





Conventional means had failed them. Now it was time to throw away the

rule book. He'd done it before and it had saved his life. This time,

it might just save someone else's.





Carol stood in the doorway of the squad room, fists on hips, glaring

down the room. The news had travelled ahead of her and the only two

detectives on the premises were clearly downcast by it. One was typing

up notes, the other working bleakly through a wad of paperwork. Neither

moved more than their eyes, a quick sidelong glance to register her

arrival.





"Where is he?" Carol demanded.





The two detectives flicked their eyes towards each other, mutual

understanding and decisions passing instantly between them. The one at

the keyboard spoke, keeping his eyes on his work. "DS Taylor, ma'am?"





"Who else? Where is he? I know he was here earlier, but I want to know

where he is now."





"He went out just after the news came through about Di," the other man

said.





"And where will he be?" Carol wasn't giving an inch. She couldn't

afford to. Not for the sake of her future authority, but for her own

self-respect. The buck stopped with her, and she had no wish to evade

that responsibility. But she needed to understand how her operation had

gone so disastrously wrong. Only one man might be able to tell her, and

she was determined to find him. "Come on," she urged. "Where?"





The two detectives exchanged another look. This time resignation was

the key component. "Harbourmaster's Club," the typist said.





"He's in a drinking den at this time of the morning?" she demanded

angrily.





"It's not just a bar, it's a club, ma'am. Originally for officers on

merchant ships. You can get meals there, or just go in and read the

papers and have a cup of coffee." Carol turned to leave, but the typist

continued. "Ma'am, you can't go there," he said, his voice urgent.





The look she gave him had induced rapists to confess. "It's men only,"

the young detective stammered. "They won't let you in."





"Jesus Christ!" Carol exploded. "God forbid we should disturb the

native customs. All right, Beckham, stop what you're doing and get down

the Harbourmaster's Club. I want you and DS Taylor back here within

half an hour, or I'll have your warrant card as well as his. Do I make

myself clear?"





The file folder closed and Beckham jumped to his feet, brushing past her

with an apology as he hurried out. "I'll be in my office," Carol

growled at the remaining detective. She tried to slam the door behind

her, but the hinges were too stiff.





Carol flopped into her chair, not even taking off her mac. Bleak

self-reproach settled oppressively, immobilizing her. She stared

emptily at the back wall where Di Earnshaw had stood during their

briefing, remembering the dead fish stare, the badly fitting suit, the

pug-nosed face. They'd never have been friends, Carol knew that

instinctively, and in a way that made what had happened worse. Coupled

with the guilt of Di Earnshaw's death in her own botched operation,

Carol had the guilt of knowing she hadn't liked the woman very much,

that if she'd been forced under duress to choose a victim from her

command, Di wouldn't have been last on the list.





Carol ran through the case history again, wondering what she could have,

should have done differently. Which was the decision that got Di

Earnshaw killed? However she cut it, she came back to the same thing

every time. She'd not kept a tight enough grip on the investigation, or

a close enough eye on junior officers who weren't worried about

discrediting her with their sloppy policing. She'd been too busy

playing knight-in-shining-armour games with





Tony Hill. Not for the first time, she'd let her emotional response to

him interfere with her judgement. This time, the consequences had been

fatal.





The peal of her phone cut across her self-flagellation and she grabbed

it in the middle of the second ring. Not even a major guilt-trip could

stifle her instincts to the point where she could ignore a ringing phone

on her office desk. "DCI Jordan," she said, her voice dull.





"Guv, it's Lee." His voice sounded brighter than it had any right to

be. Even as negative personality as Di Earnshaw had the right to a

little more sorrow from her immediate colleagues.





"What have you got?" Carol asked brusquely, swivelling round in her

chair to stare out of the window at the deserted windswept quay.





"I found her car. Tucked away down the side of one of the other

warehouses, well out of sight. Guv, she had this little tape recorder.





It was lying on the passenger seat, so I got one of the traffic lads to

get me into the car. It's all there, name, time, route, destination,

the lot. There's more than enough there to nail Brinkley!"





"Good work," she said dully. Better than nothing, it still wasn't

enough to assuage the guilt. Somehow, she knew that when she told Tony

that, after all, he'd been right, he wouldn't consider it an acceptable

trade-off either. "Bring it in, Lee."





She turned to replace the handset to find John Brandon standing in the

doorway. Wearily, she started to get up, but he motioned her to stay

seated, folding his long limbs into one of the comfortless visitor's

chairs. "A bad business," he said.





"No one to blame but me," Carol said. "I took my eye off the ball. I

left my officers to their own devices on an operation they all thought

was a waste of time. They weren't taking it seriously, and now Di

Earnshaw's dead. I should have stayed on their tails."





"I'm surprised she was out there without back-up," Brandon said. The

words were censure enough without the look of reproach on his face.





"That wasn't the intention," Carol said flatly.





"For both our sakes, I hope you can substantiate that." It wasn't a

threat, Carol realized, seeing the warmth of regret in his eyes.





Carol stared unseeing at the scarred wood of her desk top. "Somehow, I

can't get worked up about that now, sir."





Brandon's voice hardened. "Well, I suggest you do, Chief Inspector Di

Earnshaw doesn't have the luxury of feeling sorry for herself. All we

can do for her now is take her killer off the streets. When can I

expect an arrest?"





Stung, Carol jerked her head up and glared at Brandon. "Just as soon as

DC Whitbread gets back here with the evidence, sir."





"Good." Brandon got to his feet. "Once you have a clearer idea what

happened out there last night, we'll talk." The ghost of a smile

crossed his eyes. "You're not to blame, Carol. You can't be on duty

twenty-four hours a day."





Carol stared at the empty doorway after he'd gone, wondering how many

years it had taken John Brandon to learn how to let go. Then, weighing

up what she knew of the man, she wondered if he ever had, or if he'd

simply learned to hide it better.





Leon looked around, bemused. "I thought Newcastle was supposed to be

the last place on earth where men were men and sheep ran scared?"





"You got a problem with a vegetarian pub?" Chris Devine asked mildly.





Simon grinned. "He only pretends he likes his meat raw." He sipped his

pint experimentally. "Nothing wrong with the bevvy, though. How did

you find out about this place?"





"Don't ask and you won't be embarrassed, babe. Just trust your senior

officer, especially when she's a woman. So, how are we doing?" Chris

asked. "I got nowhere showing her picture round the station. Nobody in

the buffet or the ticket office or the bookstall remembered seeing her."





"The bus station was the same," Simon reported. "Not a sausage. Except

that one of the drivers said, was it not that lass that went missing in

Sunderland a couple of years back?" They contemplated the irony glumly.





"I got a sniff," Leon said. "I talked to one of the train guards, and

he put me on to a cafe where all the drivers and guards go for a brew

and a bacon butty on their breaks. I sat down with the guys and flashed

the photos. One of them reckoned he was pretty sure he'd seen her on

the Carlisle train. He remembered because she double-checked with him

what time the train got into Five Walls Halt and that they were running

on time."





"When was this?" Chris asked, offering him an encouraging cigarette.





"He couldn't be sure. But he reckoned it was the week before last."





Leon didn't have to remind them that timetable would fit perfectly with

Donna Doyle's disappearance.





"Where's Five Walls Halt?" Simon asked.





"It's somewhere in the middle of nowhere this side of Hexham," Chris

informed him. "Near Hadrian's Wall. And presumably another four. And

don't ask how I know that either, right?"





"So what's at Five Walls Halt that she'd want to get off there?"





Leon looked at Chris. She shrugged. "I'm only guessing, but I'd say it

might be somewhere near Jacko Vance's place in the country. Which, I

don't have to tell you, we're not supposed to be going anywhere near."





"We could go to Five Walls Halt, though," Leon said.





"Not until you finish that pint, we can't," Simon prompted.





"Leave the pint," Chris instructed him. "She can't have been the only

one who got off the train there. If we're going knocking on doors, we

don't want to smell like a brewery." She got to her feet. "Let's go

and discover the beauties of the Northumberland countryside. Did you

bring your wellies?"





Leon and Simon exchanged a look of panic. "Thanks, Chris," Leon

muttered sarcastically as they trailed after her into the soft rain.





Alan Brinkley stood under the shower, the cascade of water almost

scalding. The man who made the decisions had finally decreed that the

officers who had fought the fierce fire at the paint factory could be

stood down and replaced by a smaller crew who would damp down the hot

spots and keep their fresh eyes peeled for anything significant among

the wreckage. No one in authority was taking any chances now the body

had been found.





At the thought of the body, a shudder convulsed Brinkley from head to

foot. In spite of the steaming heat, his teeth chattered involuntarily.





He wasn't going to think about the body. Normal, he had to be normal.





But what was normal? How did he usually behave when there had been a

fatal fire? What did he say to Maureen How many beers did he drink the

night after? What did his mates see in his face?





He slumped against the streaming tiles of the shower cubicle, tears

falling invisibly from his eyes. Thank God for the privacy of the new

fire station, not like the old communal showers they'd had when he'd

learned his trade. In the shower now, no one could see him weep.





He couldn't get the smell out of his nostrils, the taste out of his

mouth. He knew it was imagination; the chemicals in the paint factory

overlaid any hint of incinerated flesh. But it was as real as it had

ever been. He didn't even know her name, but he knew what she smelled

like, what she tasted like now.





His mouth opened in a silent scream and he pounded with the sides of his

fists against the solid wall, making no sound. Behind him, the shower

curtain rattled back on its metal hoops. He turned slowly, pressing

himself into the corner of the cubicle. He'd seen the man and the woman

before, inside the scene-of-crime tapes at the fires. He watched the

woman's lips move, heard her voice, but could not process what she was

saying.





It didn't matter. He suddenly knew this was the only relief. He slid

down the wall into a foetal crouch. He found his voice and started to

sob like a damaged child.





Chris Devine was only a few miles out of Newcastle when her mobile rang.





"It's me, Tony. Any joy?"





She filled him in on the limited success of their morning, and in turn

he told her about his failure to convince Wharton and Mccormick to take

him seriously. "It's a nightmare," he said. "We can't afford to hang

around indefinitely on this. If Donna Doyle is still alive, every hour

could count. Chris, I think the only thing to do is for me to confront

him with the evidence and hope we can panic him into a confession or an

incriminating move."





That's what killed Shaz," Chris said. Mentioning her name brought the

grief back like a physical blow. If she could ignore the bright

presence Shaz had been in her life and the darkness of her absence, she

could get through this in a fair simulacrum of the normal breezy Chris

Devine. But every time Shaz was mentioned by name, it knocked the

breath from her. She suspected she wasn't the only one who suffered a

reaction; it would explain why Shaz was seldom spoken of directly.





"I wasn't planning on going it alone. I need back-up."





"What about Carol?"





There was a long silence. "Carol lost an officer in the night."





"Ah, shit. Her arsonist?





"Her arsonist. She's beating herself up because she thinks heir

involvement in this made her derelict in her duty. She's wrong, as it

happens, but there's no way she can walk away from her responsibilities

in Seaford today."





"Sounds like she's got more shit on her plate right now than anyone

should ever have to eat. Yeah, forget Carol."





"I'm going to need you down there, Chris. Can you bear to pull out and

go back to London? Now?"





She didn't have to hesitate for a moment. When it came to catching the

man who brutalized Shaz Bowman's beautiful face before destroying her

soul, there wasn't much Chris would have refused. "No problem. I'll

flag the lads down and tell them."





"You can tell them Kay's on her way, too. She was waiting for me when I

got back from Leeds HQ this morning. I'll call her and tell her to head

for Five Walls Halt station. She can meet Simon and Leon there."





"Thank God there'll be one person there with a bit of common sense," she

said ironically. "She can keep the lid on Die Hard one and two."





"Getting a bit gung-ho, are they?"





"There's nothing they'd love more than kicking Jacko Vance's head in.





Failing that, they'd settle for his front door." She spotted a lay-by

on the fast dual carriage way and indicated she was going to pull over,

checking in her mirror that Simon and Leon were following.





"I was thinking of reserving that pleasure for myself."





Chris gave a grunt of sardonic laughter. "Join the queue, babe. I'll

call you when I hit the





The officers in the canteen broke into a ragged round of applause as

Carol and Lee Whitbread walked in. Carol nodded a distant

acknowledgement, Lee doing better with a wan smile. Two coffees, two

doughnuts, her treat, then they were out of there and heading back to

the CID room. It would be at least an hour before Alan Brinkley's

solicitor could get there, and till then, he was off limits.





Halfway up the stairs, she turned and blocked Lee's way. "Where was

he?"





Lee looked shifty. "I don't know," he mumbled. "Must have been in a

radio black spot."





"Bollocks," Carol said. "Come on, Lee. This isn't the time for false

loyalty. Di Earnshaw would probably still be alive if Taylor had been

watching her back like he was supposed to. It could have been you. Next

time it could be. So where was he? Over the side?"





Lee scratched his eyebrow. "The nights we were on together, he stuck

with it till gone midnight. Then he called in and said he were going

for a bevvy to Corcoran's."





"If he'd done that with Di, why would she have been shouting for back-up

over the radio?" Carol demanded.





Lee squirmed, his mouth twisting awkwardly. "He wouldn't have told Di.





Not one of the lads, was she?"





Carol closed her eyes momentarily. "You're telling me I've lost one of

my officers because of traditional Yorkshire male chauvinism?" she said

incredulously.





Lee dropped his eyes and studied the step he stood on. "None of us

thought owl would happen."





Carol turned on her heel and marched upstairs, leaving Lee to trail in

her wake. This time when she shouldered open the squad-room door, Tommy

Taylor jumped to his feet. "Guv," he began.





"Chief Inspector to you. My office. Now." She waited for him to move

ahead of her. "You know something, Taylor? I'm ashamed to work in the

same squad as you." The other detectives in the room suddenly developed

total fascination with their routine tasks.





Carol kicked the door shut behind her. "Don't bother sitting down," she

said, moving behind her desk and dropping into her chair. For this

interview, she didn't need artificial aids like standing while her

junior officer sat. "DC Earnshaw is lying in the morgue incinerated

because you went on the piss while you were supposed to be working."





"I never ... " he began.





Carol simply raised her voice and continued. "There will be an official

inquiry where you can bullshit all you like about radio black spots. By

that time, I'll have statements from every drunk in Corcoran's. I am

going to bury you, Taylor. Until you're officially drummed out of this

force, you're on suspension. Now get out of my squad room and stay away

from my officers."





"I never thought she were at risk," he said pathetically.





"The reason we get our wages is that we're always at risk," Carol

snapped. "Now get out of my sight and pray you don't get reinstated

because there isn't a cop in East Yorkshire who would piss on you if you

were on fire."





Taylor backed out, carefully closing the door behind him. "Feel better

now?" Carol said under her breath. "And you're the woman who said

she'd never pass the buck." Her head dropped into her hands. She knew

any inquiry would lay little blame at her door. It didn't stop her

feeling that Di Earnshaw's blood stained her hands as much as Taylor's.





And once the identification was official, she was the one who'd have to

break the news to her parents.





At least she wouldn't have to worry about Jacko Vance and Donna Doyle

any more. That, thank God, must be someone else's problem by now.





When Chris Devine had talked about knocking on doors, Simon and Leon had

pictured a neat little village with two or three streets. Neither of

them had considered the area served by a small station halfway between

Carlisle and Hexham. Apart from the straggle of houses that made up

Five Walls Halt itself, there were farms, small holdings outlying

pockets of agricultural cottages now colonized by city commuters,

holiday homes and cramped council estates snagged improbably in the

distant corners of narrow valleys. They'd ended up in a tourist

information office buying Ordnance Survey maps.





Once Kay arrived, they split the area among themselves, agreeing to meet

back at the station at the end of the afternoon. It was a thankless

task, but one that Kay was more successful with than the others. People

always talked more to a woman on their doorstep than they ever would to

a man. By late afternoon, she'd got two possible sightings of Donna

Doyle. Both put her on their regular evening train home, but neither

could be certain of the day.





She'd also discovered the location of Jacko Vance's hideaway. One of

the doors she'd knocked on had belonged to the roofer who'd replaced the

black slate roof of the former chapel only five years before. Her

oblique raising of the subject and her gossipy questioning about Vance

had left him unsuspicious. He would merely mention down the pub that

night that women coppers were just like any other women when it came to

being pushovers for a famous name with a nice smile and a big bank

balance.





By the time the three reconvened, she had added a few more bits and

pieces to her store of knowledge. Vance had bought the place a dozen

years before, maybe six months or so after his accident. It hadn't been

much more than four walls and a roof, and he'd spent a fair whack of

cash on doing it up. When he'd married Micky,

the locals had expected them to use it as a weekend cottage, but instead

he'd used it more as a retreat; a useful base for the voluntary work he

did at the hospital in Newcastle. No one knew why he'd chosen the area.





He had no roots or connections to it as far as anyone knew.





Leon and Simon were excited by her information. They had little to

offer themselves apart from a couple of dubious sightings of Donna. One

put her in the station car park, getting into a vehicle. But the

witness couldn't remember the day, the time or the make of the wheels.





"It's no coincidence that witness sounds very like witless," Leon said.





"We're not getting anywhere with this shit. Let's go over Vance's

place."





"Tony said to stay away," Simon objected.





"I'm not sure it's a good idea," Kay agreed.





"What harm can it do? Listen, if he picked up the kid here and took her

back to his gaff, chances are somebody local might have seen him. We

can't just go back to Leeds now, not knowing this much."





"We should call Tony first," Simon said stubbornly.





Leon cast his eyes heavenwards. "OK," he sighed. He made great play of

getting his phone out and tapping in a number. Neither of the others

thought to check it was Tony's number. As the ringing tone continued

without interruption, Leon said triumphantly, "He's not answering,

right? So what harm can it do if we go and check it out? Shit, that kid

could still be alive, and we're talking about sitting on our butts till

Christmas? Come on, we got to do something."





Kay and Simon exchanged a look. Neither wanted to contradict Tony's

orders. But equally, they were too infected with the glory of the chase

to bear sitting around doing nothing while a young woman's life might be

on the line. "All right," Kay said. "But all we do is take a look

around. Right?"





"Right," said Leon enthusiastically.





"I hope so," Simon said wearily. "I really hope so."





Chris Devine sipped a double espresso and drew deeply on another

cigarette in an attempt to keep her tiredness at bay. At tea-time on a

Sunday, the Shepherd's Bush diner was less lively than a funeral

parlour. "Run it past me again," she commanded Tony.





"I go to the house. According to your contact's schedule for him,

Vance was supposed to be compering a charity fashion show in Kensington

this afternoon, so he's not going to be in Northumberland."





"Are you sure we shouldn't be hitting his place up there first?" Chris

interrupted. "If Donna Doyle's still alive ... "





"And if she's not there? We couldn't start poking around without the

locals noticing and probably getting straight on the phone to Vance. And

then we're completely blown. At the moment, he doesn't know for sure

that anybody's close to him. All he knows is that I've been sticking my

nose in. That's the only advantage we've got. We have to go straight

for the direct confrontation."





"What if his wife's there? He's not going to risk her hearing anything

you might have to say to him about Shaz."





"If Micky and Betsy are there, he'll make damn sure he gets me out of

their way before I get the chance to say a word. In a way, it's safer

for me if they are around, since I'm more likely to get out in one

piece."





"I suppose so. You better take me through it, then," she said, exhaling

a cloud of smoke.





"I tell Jacko I've been working independently of the police and I've

uncovered important video evidence relating to Shaz Bowman's death that

I think he might be able to help us with. He'll let me in because I'm

alone and he'll figure he can dispose of me the same way he got rid of

Shaz if it emerges that I really am a lone maverick. I show him the

enhanced video and the stills and accuse him. You are sitting outside

in your car with a radio receiver and a tape recorder picking up

everything that's transmitted from the mike in this natty little pen I

bought in Tottenham Court Road on the way here." Tony wiggled the pen

in front of Chris's nose.





"You don't seriously think he's going to roll over?"





Tony shook his head. "I think if he's alone, he'll try to kill me. And

that's where you come in like the cavalry, leaping tall buildings with

one mighty bound." His words were light, but his tone was sombre. They

looked bleakly at each other.





"So let's do it," Chris said. "Let's nail the fucker to a tree."





It had taken them less than ten minutes to discover it was impossible to

stake out Jacko Vance's converted chapel without being as obvious as a

wolfhound in a flock of sheep. "Fuck," Leon said.





"I don't think he picked somewhere like this by chance," Simon said,

looking around at the bleak hillside opposite the hideaway. On either

side of the gravel circle in front of the tall narrow building were

fields of sheep held at bay by wire fences. Even in the thickening

dusk, it was obvious there was neither human being nor habitation within

sight.





"It's funny," Kay mused. "Normally, celebs like a bit of privacy.





Gates, walls, high hedges. But you must be able to see this place for

miles if you walked over the moors."





"Cuts both ways, man," Leon said. "They can see you, but you get plenty

of warning when anybody approaches you. Look at that road. Them fucking

Romans didn't mess about, did they? Any Picts came looking for trouble,

you'd see them soon as they hit the horizon."





"He likes the kind of privacy where you can't be spied on," Simon said.





"I reckon that means he's got a lot more to hide than some starlet

sucking his toes."





"And I reckon we ought to check out what it is," Leon said.





They looked at each other for a long moment. Kay shook her head. Simon

said, "There is no way I'm going to be party to kicking Jacko Vance's

door in."





"Who said anything about kicking his door in?" Leon said. "Kay, you

talked to the guy that put the roof on this place. He say anything

about locals that work here? Gardener, cleaner, cook? Anything like

that?"





"Oh, yeah, like he's going to have a cleaner in premises where he's

stashing murder victims," Simon scoffed scornfully.





"This guy loves the double bluff," Leon said. "He loves putting one

over on the stupid old plod. There's nothing would appeal to him more

than having some old dear polishing the secret panel when he's got some

kid chained up behind it. What did the guy say, Kay?"





"He didn't say anything," she said. "But if anybody knows that, chances

are it's the nearest neighbour."





"So who does the best Geordie accent?" Leon demanded, pointing directly

at Simon.





"This is not a good idea," he protested. Ten minutes later, he was

knocking at the door of the first dwelling they came to, a large square

farmhouse that faced out over the moorland towards Hadrian's Wall less

than a mile away. He shifted from one foot to the other.





"Calm down," Kay said. "Just flash the warrant card dead fast. They'll

never examine it closely."





"We're going to lose our careers over this," Simon muttered through

clenched teeth.





"I'd rather chance that than let Shaz's killer walk." Kay's frown

changed to a radiant smile as the door opened on a small dark scowling

man. It wasn't hard to imagine his Pictish ancestors making Roman lives

a misery.





"Aye? What is it?"





They flipped their warrant cards open and closed in unison. The man

looked momentarily confused, then resumed his glower. "DC Mcneill from

Northumbria Police," Simon gabbled. "We've had a report of intruders at

Mr. Vance's place down the road. We can't obtain entry to the

property, and we wondered whether you knew if there was a local key

holder





"Did the local man not tell you?" he demanded in an accent Kay found

almost incomprehensible.





"Why no," Simon said, laying on the Newcastle accent. "We cannot get

hold of him, with it being Sunday, like."





"You want Doreen Elliott. Back down the road past Vance's place, gan

down the first turning on the left and her cottage is down the dip. She

keeps an eye on the place for him." The door began to close.





"Thanks," Simon said weakly.





"Aye," the man said, shutting the door firmly in their faces.





Half an hour later, they had the keys to Jacko Vance's pied-a-terre in

their possession. Unfortunately for them, they also had Mrs. Doreen

Elliott in the passenger seat of Kay's car, determined to make sure

Jacko's precious property didn't come to harm in the clumsy hands of the

police. Kay could only hope for the older woman's sake that they didn't

find what she feared behind Jacko Vance's heavy wooden front door.





The gate had been released at the mention of his name and Tony walked up

the drive, with each step becoming more immersed in the persona he had

chosen for the encounter. He wanted Vance to think he was uncertain and

capable of being outwitted. He would take control by appearing to be

the weaker of the two. It was a risky strategy, but one he felt

confident he could handle.





Vance had opened the door wreathed in smiles, greeting him by his first

name. Tony could only allow himself to be swept inside, assuming a

faintly confused look. "I'm so sorry, you've missed Micky," Vance said.





"She's spending the weekend with some friends in the country. But I

didn't want you to go off without taking the opportunity to meet you

face to face," he continued as he ushered Tony in. "Of course, I saw

you on my wife's programme the other day, but I've been noticing you at

all my events lately. You should have come over and introduced

yourself, we could have had a chat before now, saved you coming all the

way to London." He was the model of charm and suavity, his words

flowing calm and mollifying.





"Actually, it wasn't Micky I came to see. I wanted to talk to you about

Shaz Bowman," Tony said, trying to appear stiff and awkward.





A momentary look of puzzlement. Then Vance said, "Ah, yes, the

detective who was killed so tragically. Right. I had it in mind that

it was something altogether other that you wanted to ... Are you

actually working with the police on the case, then?"





"As you'll recall from the interview I did with your wife, I was in

charge of the unit Shaz was on attachment to. So, naturally, I have

taken a role in the investigation," Tony said. Hiding behind formality

would make Vance feel he was uncomfortable.





Vance's eyebrows rose, his dancing blue eyes teasing as they always

seemed to on TV. "I heard your role in the investigation was on the

opposite side of the fence," he said mildly. "That you were answering

questions rather than asking."





Vance's inside information, however gleaned, could be turned to his own

advantage, Tony realized. In a way, it actually played into the

strategy he'd outlined to Chris. "You have good sources," he said,

trying to sound grudging. "But I can assure you that although I'm

working independently of the police, the evidence I have uncovered will

be placed in their hands at the appropriate time." That planted the

idea he was working solo.





"And what has all of this to do with me?" Vance leaned casually against

the newel post of the staircase that curved upwards.





"I have some video footage that I think you might be able to cast some

light on," Tony said, patting his jacket pocket.





For the first time since his greeting, Vance looked slightly

disconcerted. His face cleared momentarily and the golden boy smile was

back. "Then I suggest you come upstairs with me. I have a room on the

top floor that I use for screenings for small and select audiences He

stepped to one side and with a graceful sweep of his real arm indicated

that Tony should climb ahead of him.





Tony mounted the stairs. He told himself it didn't matter which room

they were in; Chris could still hear him, and if things turned

dangerous, she'd have time enough to mount a rescue. He hoped.





He paused at the landing, but Vance silently directed him up the next

flight. "First door on the right," he said as they emerged on the top

landing, an astonishingly bright area lit by a four-sided pyramid

skylight.





The room Tony entered was long and narrow. The far wall was mostly

occupied by a video screen. To his left, bolted to the floor, was a

tall trolley holding a video recorder and a film projector. Behind it,

shelves built round an editing desk were crammed with video tapes and

film canisters. A cluster of comfy-looking leather slings on wooden

frames completed the furnishings.





The window was what should have made Tony's heart sink. Although it was

transparent, it had clearly had some sort of coating applied to it. Had

he paid the same attention to his surroundings as he did to their

occupants, he'd have noticed the precaution previously in government

buildings where things went on that officials didn't want to become

common knowledge. The coating made the windows impervious to radio

signals, preventing electronic eavesdropping. This, added to the

baffles that covered the walls, ensured that the room was to all intents

and purposes sealed to the outside world. He could scream all he liked.





Chris Devine would no longer be able to hear him.





Chris stared at the Holland Park mansion, wondering what the hell to do.





Tony and Vance's voices had been coming through loud and clear then

suddenly, nothing. The last thing she'd heard had been Vance saying,

"First door on the right." It wasn't even enough information to work

out which room they were in, since she had no idea which way the

staircase turned.





At first, she'd thought there was something wrong with the equipment a

loose wire, a dislodged battery. Terrible seconds raced past as Chris

quickly checked what she could. But the reels of tape were still

turning, although nothing was coming through on the receiver. She

clutched her forehead, trying to figure out what was happening.





Certainly there had been no sound of a struggle, no indication that the

transmitter had been spotted. It could even be





that Tony had turned it off. If, for example, he'd found himself in the

kind of environment where electronic feedback might betray him. Vance

had spoken of a special viewing room, the kind of place that might just

house that sort of sensitive electronic gear.





She could feel herself dithering and hated herself for it. Anything

could be happening to Tony. He was in a house with a killer, a man he

fully expected to try to murder him.





She could, she supposed, try his mobile. They had agreed she would only

use the phone as a last resort. Well, there was nothing else she could

attempt in the face of radio silence. She hit the memory button that

summoned his number and hit ''. Moments of nothing then the

familiar three tones followed by the infuriatingly calm female voice

intoning, "I'm sorry. The Vodaphone you are calling has not responded.





Please try later."





"Shit, shit, shit," Chris hissed. There was nothing else for it. She

might blow Tony out of the water, but better that than cost him his life

by wavering like this. Chris jumped out of her car and ran up the road

towards the Vance mansion.





Oblivious to the danger he had walked into, Tony turned to face Vance.





"Smart set-up," he said.





Vance couldn't help preening. "The best money can buy. So, what was it

you wanted me to look at?"





Tony handed him the video cassette and watched him slot it into the

machine, noticing that here on his home ground Vance's handicap was

almost unnoticeable. A jury might find it hard to believe that he could

be as awkward as he appeared when filling Shaz Bowman's car with petrol.





Tony made a mental note to suggest a restaging of the event for the

court's benefit.





"Grab a seat," Vance said.





Tony chose a chair where he could just see Vance in his peripheral

vision. As the tape started to play, Vance used a remote control to dim

the lights. Tony readied himself for the next stage of the

confrontation. The first section showed the unenhanced sequence of the

disguised Vance at the motorway filling station. Barely thirty seconds

into the film, Vance made a low sound in the bottom of his throat,

almost a growl. As it continued to play, the sound grew in volume and

rose in pitch. Tony realized the man was laughing. "Is that meant to

be me?" he eventually squeezed out between laughter, turning his

grinning face to Tony.





"It is you. You know it, I know it. And soon the rest of the world

will know it," Tony hoped he'd struck the right note, somewhere between

bravado and whingeing. As long as Vance was confident he was in

control, there was the chance he might make a mistake.





Vance's eyes flicked past him to the screen. In slo-mo, the enhanced

video was playing. To anyone who knew who they were looking for, it was

hard to resist the resemblance between the man on the video and the one

with the remote control. "Dear, oh dear," he said sardonically. "You

think anyone's going to build a case on something as obviously doctored

as that?"





"There's not just that," Tony said mildly. "Keep watching. I like the

footage of you arriving back in Leeds to finish the job off."





Ignoring him, Vance hit the button that stopped the tape. He flipped it

out of the player and tossed it back to Tony, all with single-handed

smoothness. "I don't move like that," he said contemptuously. "I'd be

ashamed of myself if I'd adapted that poorly to my disability."





"It was an unfamiliar car, a strange situation."





"You'll have to do better than that."





Tony threw a copy of his report at Vance. His left hand shot out in a

trained reflex and caught it. He opened it at the first page and

glanced at it. For a moment, the skin round his mouth and eyes

tightened. Tony could sense the sheer force of will that stopped him

from a more powerful reaction. "It's all there," Tony said. "A

selection of your victims. Photographs of you with them. Their

astonishing resemblance to Jillie. The mutilation of Barbara Fen-wick.





It's all tied in to you."





Vance lifted his handsome face and shook his head pityingly. "You

haven't got a hope," he said contemptuously. "Circumstantial trash. A

load of doctored photographs. Have you any idea how many people have

their photographs taken with me in a year? The only surprising thing in

statistical terms is that more of them don't end up murdered. You're

wasting your time, Dr. Hill. Just like DC Bowman before you."





"You can't talk your way out of this, Vance," Tony said. "This goes way

beyond coincidence. There isn't a jury in the land will fall for that."





"There isn't a jury in the land that won't contain half a dozen of my

fans. If they're told this is a witch-hunt, they'll believe me. If I

hear another word of this, I will not only set my lawyers on you but I

will also go to the press and tell them about this sad little man who

works for the Home Office and is obsessed with my wife. He's deluded,

of course, just like all the sad little men who fall in love with an

image on the TV screen. He thinks just because she had dinner with him

that she'd fall into his arms if I was out of the picture. So he's

trying to frame me for a bunch of non-existent serial killings. Let's

see who ends up looking like a fool then, Dr. Hill." Gripping the

folder under his right upper arm, Vance ripped it across.





"You killed Shaz Bowman," Tony said. "You've killed a lot of other

girls, but you killed Shaz Bowman and you are not going to walk away

from that. You can tear up my report as many times as you like, but we

are going to get you."





"I don't think so. If there was anything like evidence in this folder,

there would be a team of senior police officers here. This is fantasy,

Dr. Hill. You need help."





Before Tony could respond, a green light started flashing on the wall

near the door. Vance strode over and picked up a handset. "Who is it?"





He listened for a moment. "There's no need for you to come in,

Detective. Dr. Hill is just leaving." He replaced the receiver and

gave Tony a measured look. "Well, Dr. Hill? Are you? Or do I have to

call police officers who will be rather more rational on the subject of

DC Bowman than Sergeant Devine?"





Tony got to his feet. "I'm not giving up on this," he said.





Vance gave a shout of laughter. "And my friends at the Home Office

thought you had such a promising career. Take my advice, Dr. Hill. Go

on holiday. Forget about Bowman. Get a life. You've obviously been

working too hard." But his eyes were not laughing. In spite of his

experience at presenting a facade for the world, even Jacko Vance could

not prevent apprehension leaking out from behind his genial expression.





Tony resisted the impulse to show the jubilation he felt and began to

descend the stairs with the air of a man drowned in defeat. He'd

achieved almost exactly what he'd expected. It wasn't quite the same

goal as he'd revealed to Chris Devine, since he hadn't been sure he

could carry it off. Well satisfied, Tony plodded down the hall and

through Jacko Vance's front door.





The chapel had been built for a small but passionately devout

congregation. It was simple but genuinely beautiful in its proportions,

Kay thought as she stood in the doorway. The conversion to living space

had been done tastefully, retaining the sense of airiness. Vance had

chosen furnishings with simple, uncluttered lines, the only

ornamentation a series of bright gabbeh rugs scattered over the stone

flags of the floor. The single room had a galley kitchen, a small

dining area and a sitting space with a couple of sofas angled round a

big low slate table. At the far end, a raised sleeping gallery had been

built. Underneath was what looked like a workbench fitted out with

tools. Kay felt the clench of excitement in her stomach as she watched

Simon and Leon range through the room, ostensibly looking for signs of

the fictitious intruder.





By her side, Doreen Elliott stood foursquare and firm, a squat blunt

obelisk of a woman in her fifties with a face as impassive as the

massive stones of Hadrian's Wall itself. "Who did you say reported the

intruder?" she demanded, jealously guarding her rights as custodian of

Jacko Vance's privacy.





"I don't know exactly," Kay said. "I think the call came from a car

phone. Someone driving past saw a flickering light inside, like a

torch."





"Must be a quiet night for three of you to come out on something like

this." Her acerbic tone indicated that the local police generally

failed to meet her exacting standards.





"We were in the area," Kay said. "It was easier to divert us than to

send out other officers. Besides," she added with a confiding smile,

'when it's someone like Jacko Vance involved, well, I suppose we try a

bit harder."





"Hmmph. What do they think they're looking for, that pair?"





Kay looked down the room where Simon seemed to be scanning the floor,

lifting the corners of rugs with his toe and peering underneath. Leon

was methodically opening kitchen cupboards and drawers, looking, she

knew, for any indication that Donna Doyle might have been here.





"Just checking nothing obvious is missing, and there's nowhere for

anyone to hide," she said. Simon had given up on the rugs and moved on

to the workbench. She saw his back stiffen as he got closer. His steps

changed almost to a prowl and he angled his head . all the better to

study whatever had caught his attention. He turned to face them, and

Kay saw the brightness of discovery in his eyes.





"Looks like Mr. Vance is quite into woodwork," Simon said, gesturing

with his head to Leon.





"He makes wooden toys for the hairns in the hospital," Mrs. Elliott

said, as proudly as if he were her own son. "He cannot do enough for

them. Never mind the George Cross, they should give him a medal for the

hours he puts in with people at death's door. You cannot measure the

comfort he gives folk."





Leon had joined Simon at the workbench. "Some serious kit here," he

said. "Man, these chisels are sharp as razors." His face was sombre

and grim. "And you want to see this vice, Kay. I've never seen

anything like it."





"He needs that to hold the wood," Mrs. Elliott said firmly. "With his

arm the way it is, he cannot manage without it. He calls it his extra

pair of hands."





Tony trudged down Vance's drive, head down, the sound of the slamming

door still ringing in his ears. He raised his eyes and caught Chris's

anxious look. Giving her a broad wink, he maintained his dejected body

language until he was through the electronic gates and back on the

street, hidden from the house by the high hedge.





"What the fuck happened in there?" Chris demanded.





"What do you mean? I was just getting into my stride when you butted

in," Tony protested.





"You went off the air. I didn't know what the hell was going on."





"What do you mean, I went off the air?"





"It just went dead. He said, "First on the right," then total silence.





For all I knew, he'd topped you."





Tony frowned, trying to work out what had happened. "He must have that

room electronically shielded," he eventually said. "Of course. The

last thing he'd want is anyone doing any snooping round him that he

didn't know about. It never crossed my mind."





Chris cupped her hands against the wind and lit a cigarette. "Jesus,"

she exploded softly in a long stream of smoke. "Don't ever give me a

fright like that again. So what happened? Did he cough? Don't tell me

he coughed and we didn't get it on tape?"





Tony shook his head, walking her across the street to where he'd parked

his car in full view of Vance's house. He glanced back and was pleased

to see his target standing at a window on the top floor looking down at

them. "Get in my car for now, I'll explain," he said.





He started the engine and drove round the corner. "He poured scorn on

the evidence," Tony said as he turned into another street,

doubling back to get behind where Chris was parked a couple of hundred

yards from Vance's gate, out of the line of sight from the house. "He

made it plain that he thought we had nothing on him and that if we

didn't call off the dogs he'd come after me."





"He threatened to kill you?"





"No, he threatened to go to the papers and make an idiot of me."





"You sound pretty pleased with yourself for somebody that just blew

their big showdown," Chris said. "I thought he was supposed to either

roll over and spill his guts or else try to top you?"





Tony shrugged. "I didn't really expect him to confess. And if he was

going to kill me, I don't think he'd have done it on the spot. He might

have convinced Wharton and Mccormick that there was nothing sinister

about Shaz visiting him before she died, but I think even they would

have to pay attention if I was killed after I'd just been to Vance's

house. No, what I wanted to do was unsettle him to the point where he

starts to worry how well he's covered his tracks."





"And what good does that do?" She wound the window down an inch to

flick her ash clear.





"With a bit of luck, it sets him off like a clockwork mouse, straight

for his killing ground. He needs to make sure there's nothing that can

incriminate him in the unlikely event that I could ever persuade the

police to apply for a search warrant."





"You think he'll go now?"





"I'm banking on it. According to his schedule, he's got nothing on

tomorrow until a meeting at three. After that, the week starts looking

horrendous. He's got to go for it now."





Chris groaned. "Not the M1 again."





"You up for it?"





"I'm up for it," she said wearily. "What's the plan?"





"I go now. He's seen me drive off with you, so he should think the

coast's clear. I'll head on up to Northumberland and you try to stay

with him when he emerges. We can keep in touch by phone."





"At least it's dark," she said. "Hopefully he won't notice the same

headlights in his rear-view mirror." She opened the door and got out,

leaning back in to speak. "I can't believe I'm doing this. All the

bloody way down from Northumberland to London just to turn round and go

back there again. We must be demented."





"No. Just determined."





He was that, all right, Chris thought as she walked to her car and

watched Tony do a three-point turn and return the way he'd come. God,

she thought. It was already seven. Five, six hours back to

Northumberland. She hoped there wasn't going to be too much action at

the other end of the trip because she would be dead on her feet.





She tuned the radio to a golden oldies station and settled down to sing

along with the sixties. She didn't have long to harmonize before the

gates of Vance's house slid back and the long silver nose of his

Mercedes appeared. "You fucking beauty," she said, turning on her

ignition and rolling forward to keep him in her sights. Holland Park

Avenue, then up to join the A40. As they headed out through Acton and

Baling, Chris felt a vague sense of uneasiness. This wasn't just the

pretty way to Northumberland. It was perverse. She couldn't believe he

was going to drive all the way out west to the orbital M25 just to

circle round to the northbound M1.





She stayed close enough not to lose him at the lights, always managing

to keep a single car between them. It was hard driving, but at least

the streetlights helped. Eventually, the signs for the M25 appeared and

Chris prepared to take the slip road even though Vance showed no signs

of leaving the carriage way Probably do a last-minute lane change, she

thought, if he thinks he might have a tail.





But he didn't move and it was she who had to do the last-minute rescue,

stamping on the accelerator to keep in touch with his tail lights. She

only made it because he was driving a scant handful of miles above the

limit, like a man who absolutely doesn't want to be stopped for

speeding. She grabbed her phone and hit the recall button for Tony's

number.





"Tony? It's Chris. Listen, I'm on the M4O heading west tight on Jack

the Lad's tail. Wherever he's going, it's not Northumberland."





The discovery of the vice injected a new urgency into the search.





Acutely aware of how bizarre this must seem to Doreen Elliott, Kay

desperately tried to distract her with conversation. "They made a

lovely job of converting this place," she said brightly.





It was clearly the right thing. Mrs. Elliott turned to the kitchen and

ran a hand along the polished smoothness of the solid wood. "Our Derek

did the kitchen. He wanted no expense spared, like. Everything you

could possibly want, all the latest stuff." She pointed to the cupboard

fronts. "Washer-dryer, dishwasher, fridge, freezer, all tucked away."





"I'd have thought he'd have brought his wife up with him more often,"

Kay tried.





It was clearly the wrong thing. Mrs. Elliott frowned. "Well, he told

us they'd be using it as a weekend place. But in the end, she never

came. He said she was too much of a city girl. She doesn't like the

country, you see. Well, you only have to look at her on that TV

programme to see she'd not fit in with the likes of us. Not like Mr.

Vance."





"What, she's never been here at all?" Kay tried to sound as if this was

news to her. She had half her attention on Simon and Leon, but she was

still keeping watch on Mrs. Elliott's reactions. "We're just trying to

work out who else might have a key. For security reasons," she added

hastily as the older woman's face grew more slab-like.





"Never seen hide nor hair of her." Then a smirk. "That's not to say

there's never been a woman's hand on the place. Well, a man's entitled

to his compensations if his wife cannot bring herself to share his

interests."





"You've seen him here with other women, then?" Kay asked, aiming for

casual.





"Not actually seen him, no, but I come in once a fortnight to give the

place a clean, and there's been a couple of times I've unloaded the

dishwasher and there's been glasses with lipstick traces. It doesn't

always come off in the machine, you see. So putting two and two

together, I suppose he's got a girlfriend. But he knows he can rely on

us to keep our mouths shut."





Only because no one's ever asked you, Kay thought cynically. "As you

say, if his wife won't come to a place like this ... "





"It's a palace," Mrs. Elliott said, doubtless comparing it to the dark

kitchen of her own cottage. "I tell you something: I bet it's the only

house in Northumberland with its own private nuclear shelter."





The words fell into the conversation like a bomb.





"A nuclear shelter?" Kay asked faintly. Simon and Leon froze where

they stood like gun dogs on point.





She mistook the stillness of their surprise for doubt. "Right under our

feet," Mrs. Elliott said. "I'm not making this up, pet."





Chris had barely finished the call to Tony when she saw the tail lights

ahead of her wink to indicate that Vance was about to take the next slip

road. Chris followed, leaving her move to the last possible moment.





They turned north then, a couple of miles from the motorway, Vance

signalled a left turn. At the junction, Chris slowed down and saw

something that made her swear like a football supporter.





She switched off her main lights and drove cautiously down the narrow

lane on sidelights only. She rounded a bend and there on her left was

Jacko Vance's destination.





The private airfield was floodlit. Parked on a strip of Tarmac, Chris

saw a dozen small planes standing in front of four hangars. She watched

Vance's headlamps cut twin cones through the darkness round the

perimeter then be swallowed up in the greater brightness as he drew up

behind one of the planes. A man jumped out of the cockpit and waved.





Vance got out of his car and walked to the plane, greeting the pilot

with a clap on the shoulder.





"Oh, fuck," Chris said. For the second time in the space of an hour,

she had no idea what to do. Vance could have chartered the plane to get

him to Northumberland ahead of any possible pursuit. Or he could have

chartered it to get him out of the country. A quick flight across the

Channel into the open borders of Europe and he could be anywhere by

morning. Should she opt for dramatic intervention or leave him to take

off ?





It was a gamble, and one she didn't want to take responsibility for. Her

eyes scanned the airfield, settling on the small control tower that

jutted out beyond the furthest hangar. Then she saw Vance and the pilot

disappear aboard. Seconds later, the propellers stuttered into life.





"Fuck it," Chris said and put the car in gear. She raced round the

airport perimeter fence and reached the control tower just as the small

plane taxied out on to the runway.





She raced inside, startling the man who sat at a plotting desk beside a

computer. Chris thrust her warrant card in his face. That plane on the

runway. Has it filed a flight plan?"





"Yeah, yeah, he has," the man stammered. "He's going to Newcastle. Is

there some sort of a problem? I mean, I can tell him to abort his

take-off if there's a problem. We're always keen to help the police ..





"No problem," Chris said grimly. "Just forget you ever saw me, OK? No

little radio messages saying anybody was interested, OK?"





"No, I mean yes, whatever you say, officer. No messages."





"And just to make sure," Chris said, pulling up a chair and giving him

the predatory smile that sucked confessions from hard men, "I'm staying

right here." She pulled out her phone and called Tony. "Sergeant

Devine," she said. "Subject is aboard private plane, destination

Newcastle. You're going to have to deal with it from here on in.





Suggest you organize a reception committee with the troops on the ground

at his ultimate destination. OK?"





A bemused Tony stared at the shifting lights ahead of him on the

motorway and said, "Oh, shit, a plane? I take it you can't speak

freely?"





"Correct. I'm staying here to make sure subject isn't given a warning

by the control tower."





"Ask him how long it'll take to Newcastle."





There was a muffled conversation, then Chris came back on the line. "He

says they're flying an Aztec, which should do it in about two and a half

to three hours. No chance you can beat the clock."





"I'll do what I can. And Chris thanks." He ended the call and carried

on driving on automatic pilot. So, somewhere between two and a half and

three hours? Then he'd have to find his way to Five Walls Halt, either

by taxi or by hiring a car, which wouldn't be easy at ten o'clock on a

Sunday night. Even so, Tony realized Chris was right. There was no way

he could possibly arrive at Vance's bolt hole ahead of him.





"Which is why he did it, of course," he said aloud. Vance was no fool.





He would expect Tony to know about his other home and to make for there

once he'd stirred things up. What Vance hadn't known was that Tony

already had three police profilers in Northumberland. At least, he

presumed they were still making inquiries up there, since he'd heard

nothing to the contrary. Come to that, he'd heard nothing since

mid-afternoon, when he'd checked in with Simon to discover that they

were going door-to-door in a bid to trace any sightings of Donna Doyle.





It wasn't enough, though. Three junior CID officers, none from the

local force, none with any experience of command. They'd be uncertain,

not knowing when or whether to challenge Vance. They wouldn't know when

to hang back and when to move. It needed more than any of them had to

give. There was only one person who could get there in time and keep

Leon, Simon and Kay in check.





She answered on the second ring. "DCI Jordan."





"Carol? It's me. How are you doing?"





"Not good. To be honest, I'm grateful for the human contact. I've been

feeling like a leper. I'm an outcast from the infantry because they

think I'm partly responsible for Di Earnshaw's death. I'm isolated from

John Brandon because there will have to be an inquiry which he can't be

seen to influence. And I'm out of the loop when it comes to questioning

Alan Brinkley in case I compromise the interrogation for personal

reasons. And I have to tell you that breaking the news to her parents

left me feeling that the Ancient Greeks' method of dealing with bad news

must sometimes have been a relief to the messenger."





"I'm sorry. You must wish now I hadn't dragged you into this Vance

business," he said.





"I don't," she said firmly. "Somebody's got to put a stop to Vance, and

nobody else would listen to you. I don't blame you for what went wrong

in Seaford. That's my responsibility. I shouldn't have tried to do

surveillance on a shoestring. I knew you were right and I should have

carried that conviction through and demanded the bodies to do the job

properly instead of settling for a skeleton crew. If I had, Di Earnshaw

would still be alive."





"You can't know that for sure," Tony protested. "Anything could have

happened. Her partner could have gone for a piss at the crucial moment,

they could have separated to circle the building. If anyone's to blame,

it's the sergeant. Not only were they supposed to look out for each

other, he was her immediate boss. He owed her a duty of care and he

failed her."





"And what about my duty of care?"





Tony shook his head. "Oh, Carol, ease up on yourself."





"I can't. But enough of that. Where are you? And what's happening

with Vance?"





"I'm on the M1. It's been a complicated day." As he hammered on in the

outside lane oblivious to anything but the traffic and the woman on the

end of the phone, he brought Carol up to speed.





"So now he's somewhere between London and Newcastle?" Carol asked.





That's right."





"You're not going to make it in time, are you?"





"No."





"But I could?"





"Possibly. Probably, if you stuck the blue light on. I can't ask you

to, but I ... "





"There's nothing for me to do here. I'm off duty, and nobody's going to

call out the CID leper tonight. I'm better off doing this than sitting

here feeling sorry for myself. Get me some directions. I'll call you

when I get near Newcastle." Her voice was stronger and firmer than it

had been at the start of the call. Even if he'd wanted to argue, he

realized it would have been pointless. She was the woman he'd taken her

for, and she wouldn't walk away from a challenge.





"Thanks," he said simply.





"We're wasting time talking." Abruptly, the line went dead.





The price of Tony's skill was the empathy he brought to situations like

this. He understood precisely what Carol was going through. Very few

people ever experienced a justified sense of responsibility for the

death of another human being. Everything Carol had been certain of had

suddenly shifted on to shaky ground and no one who had not shared a

similar experience could help her back to terra firma. But he

understood and he cared enough to try. He suspected that his phone call

had, serendipitously, been the first step in the right direction. Hoping

he was correct, Tony stared into the narrowing tunnel of red lights and

carried on driving north.





On the exact location of the entrance to the basement shelter, Mrs.

Elliott was rather more vague. "It's under the flags somewhere. He had

a couple of lads from Newcastle over to install it so that you cannot

see it just by looking."





The three police officers glared in frustration at the metre-square

stone slabs that made up the floor. Then Simon said, "If you can't see

it, how do you get down there?"





"Our Derek said they'd installed an electric motor," Mrs. Elliott said.





"Well, if there's a motor, there's gotta be a switch," Leon muttered.





"Si, you start on the right-hand side of the door. Kay, you start on

the left. I'll go up to the sleeping gallery." The two men moved away

and started flicking switches, but Kay was held back by Mrs. Elliott's

hand on her sleeve.





"What do you need to find the shelter for?" she asked. "I thought you

said there was supposed to be a prowler? They're not going to be down

there."





Kay dug out her most reassuring smile. "When we're dealing with a

celebrity like Mr. Vance, we have to be especially careful. A prowler

in his house could be a lot more serious than a straightforward burglar.





If someone was stalking him, for example, they could be hiding in

waiting for him. So we have to take this extremely seriously." She

covered the woman's hand with her own. "Why don't we wait outside?"





"What for?"





"If there is someone down there, it could be very dangerous." Kay's

smile felt strained. If Donna Doyle was trapped in the cellar,

discovering her would be a revelation that would give even the stolid

Doreen Elliott nightmares for the rest of her life, Kay knew. "It's our

job to protect members of the public, you know. How do you think my

boss would react if I let you be taken hostage by some nutter with a

knife?"





Mrs. Elliott let herself be led into the tiny porch with only a single

backward glance at Simon and Leon moving round the room snapping

switches on and off. "You think it's a stalker, then?" she asked

avidly. "Up here?"





"It wouldn't necessarily be someone from around here," Kay said. "These

people are obsessive. They'll follow a celebrity for weeks, months,

learning every detail of their life and routine. Have you seen any

strangers hanging around?"





"Well, we get the tourists and the hikers, but mostly they're only here

for the wall. They don't hang about."





Before Kay could say more, her phone rang. "Will you excuse me? I'll

only be a minute," she said, slipping back inside to take the call.





"Hello?"





"Kay? It's Tony. Where are you?"





Oh, shit, she thought. Why me? Why couldn't he have phoned Leon? "Er..





. we're inside Jacko Vance's house in Northumberland," she said. Simon

glanced across at her, but she waved to him to continue his search.





"What?" Tony exclaimed, outraged.





"I know you said to wait, but we kept thinking about Donna Doyle





"You broke in?"





"No. We're perfectly entitled to be here. A local woman has a key. We

informed her there had been reports of a prowler and she let us in."





"Well, you'd better get out asap."





"Tony, she could be here. This place has got a sealed basement. Vance

told the builders he wanted a nuclear shelter."





"A nuclear shelter?" His incredulity was palpable.





"It was a dozen years ago. People still believed Russia was going to

nuke us," Kay reminded him plaintively. The point is, she could be down

there and we wouldn't hear her, not even standing right above her. We've

got to find the door."





"No. You've got to leave it. He's on his way there. He's chartered a

plane, Kay. He's probably coming up there to make sure he's not left

any loose ends. Kay, we need to catch him in the act. We need to stake

the place out and watch him go down there to an untouched crime scene."





As he spoke, Kay looked on in amazement as the ground moved only feet

away from her. Silently, a single slab tilted and swung open in

response to a switch flicked by Simon. As the fetid air escaped, Kay

gagged. Recovering herself, she said, "It's too late for that. We've

found the door."





Simon was already at the opening in the floor, peering down a set of

stone steps. His groping hands found a switch and flooded the area with

light. A long moment passed then he turned to Kay, his face the colour

of putty. "If that's Tony, you better tell him we've found Donna Doyle,

as well."





He drummed his fingers gently against the arm rest, the only movement in

a body still as a lion preparing for the pounce. He didn't even brace

himself against the jolts of the pockets of turbulence the small

twin-engined plane hit occasionally, but let his body shift with the

movement. Once upon a time, he used to bite the nails of his right hand

when he was nervous. Losing his arm had been an extreme cure for a bad

habit, he was fond of saying wryly in public. Now, he had cultivated

stillness, understanding that nervous tics made nothing happen faster or

easier. Besides, stillness was much more unsettling for everyone else.





The engine note changed as the pilot prepared to land. Jacko peered out

of the window, staring down at the smudge of suburban streetlights

through the fine rain. He'd left Tony Hill standing. There was no way

he could have beaten the aircraft. And he had no back-up, Jacko knew

from his own discreet inquiries, confirmed by what both Micky and Tony

himself had admitted.





The wheels hit the runway and jolted him against his seatbelt. A slight

swerve, a correction, then they were heading for the flying club hangars

at a gentle taxi. They had barely come to a standstill when Jacko had

the door open. He jumped to the Tarmac and looked around, his eyes

searching for the familiar shape of his Land Rover. Sam Foxwell and his

brother were always glad to earn the twenty quid he paid them whenever

he needed the Land Rover brought to the airport and when he'd spoken to

them from the car phone, they'd promised to have it there for him.





When he couldn't spot it, he felt a shiver of panic. They couldn't have

let him down, not tonight of all nights. The pilot interrupted his

thoughts, pointing to the side of the hangar in deep shadow. "If you're

looking for your Land Rover, I think it's tucked round there. I noticed

it when I was taxiing





"Cheers." Jacko dug into his pocket and took a twenty-pound note from

his money clip. "Have a beer on me. See you soon, Keith."





As he thundered along the narrow Northumberland side roads that were the

quickest route to the place he considered his real home, he reviewed

what he had to do in the couple of hours' grace he had before Tony Hill

could possibly arrive. First, check if the bitch was still alive and if

she was, see she didn't stay that way. Then, take the chain saw to her,

get her bagged and into the Land Rover. Clean the basement with the

high-pressure hose and set off for the hospital. Would he have time? Or

should he simply disable the motor that opened the door on its swivel?





After all, Hill had no way of knowing about the basement shelter and the

local police were not going to mount a search on his say-so, not when it

would offend an upstanding local taxpayer like Jacko Vance. And there

was no guarantee that Tony Hill would even show up.





Maybe he should just settle for making sure she was dead and leave the

clearing up for later. There would be a certain delight in entertaining

Tony Hill only feet away from his latest victim. His mouth twisted in

an ugly snarl. Donna Doyle would have to be his last victim for a

while. Damn the man. Tony Hill should have let sleeping bitches lie.





Jacko had plans for Tony Hill, though. One day, when it had all gone

quiet and Tony Hill had resigned himself to the fact that he'd failed,

that plan would go into action and he'd wish he'd never stuck his nose

into someone else's business.





The headlights sliced through the deep darkness of the countryside,

breasting the hill that rolled down to his sanctuary. Where there

should have been nothing but blackness, light spilled out over the

cropped moorland grass and the grey gravel of his drive. Jacko stamped

on the brakes and the Land Rover screamed to a jittering halt. What the

fuck?





As he sat there, mind racing, adrenaline pumping, a pair of headlights

on full beam crept up behind him, angling across the narrow road so

there was no possibility of going backwards. Slowly, Vance took his

foot off the brake and let the Land Rover cruise down the hill towards

his home. The lights shifted and fell into convoy behind him. As he

grew closer, he saw a second car parked diagonally just beyond his

gateway, effectively blocking the road beyond.





Vance drove on to his property, the cold grip of fear in his stomach

focusing his mind. When he rolled to a halt he jumped out of his

vehicle, every inch the outraged householder, and confronted the young

black man standing in his doorway. "What the hell's going on?" he

demanded.





"I'm afraid I'm going to have to ask you to wait outside, sir," Leon

said deferentially.





"What do you mean? This is my house. Has there been a burglary or

what? What's going on? And who the hell are you?"





"I'm Detective Constable Leon Jackson of the Metropolitan Police." He

held out his warrant card for inspection.





Vance switched the charm on. "You're a long way from home."





"Pursuing an investigation, sir. It's amazing where a line of inquiry

can take us in these days of electronic communications and efficient

travel networks." Leon's voice was impassive, but his eyes never left

Vance.





"Look, you know who I am, obviously. You know this is my place. Can't

you at least tell me what the hell is going on?"





A horn beeped and Vance turned to see the car that had followed him down

the hill stop just outside the gate, blocking the road in the opposite

direction. He was hemmed in completely. Jesus, he hoped the bitch was

dead. Another young man got out of the car and walked across the

gravel. "Are you from the Metropolitan Police as well?" Vance asked,

forcing himself to maintain his professionally beguiling mode.





"No," Simon said. "I'm from Strathclyde."





"Strathclyde?" Vance was momentarily confused. He'd taken someone from

London few years ago, but he'd never brought anyone down from Scotland.





He hated the accent. It reminded him of





Jimmy Linden and all that meant to him. So if there was a cop here from

Scotland, they couldn't be tracking the girls. It was going to be fine,

he told himself. He could walk away from this.





"That's right, sir. DC Jackson and myself have been working on

different aspects of the same case. We were in the area and we had a

report from a passing motorist of a prowler here. So we thought we'd

better check it out."





"That's very commendable, officers. Perhaps I could go inside and check

to see if any thing's missing or broken?" He moved to edge around Leon,

but the policeman was too fast for him. He extended his arm, blocking

Vance, and shook his head.





"I'm afraid not, sir. It's a crime scene, you see. We need to make

sure nothing interferes with it."





"A crime scene? What on earth has happened?" Concerned, try to sound

concerned, he warned himself. This is your house, you're an innocent

man and you want to know what's happened on your property.





"I'm afraid there's been a suspicious death," Simon said coldly.





Jacko made himself take what looked like an involuntary step backwards,

covering his face with his hands to make sure no sign of the relief that

flooded him was visible to the police. She was dead, hallelujah. A dead

woman could never testify. He pasted an expression of worried anxiety

on his face and looked up. "But that's terrible. A death? Here? But

who ... How? This is my home. Nobody comes here except me. How can

there be someone dead here?"





That's what we're trying to establish, sir," Leon said.





"But who is it? A burglar? What?"





"We don't think it was a burglar," Simon said, trying to keep the lid on

the rage he felt face to face with the man who had killed Shaz and who

was trying to pretend he had nothing to do with the putrefying mess in

his cellar.





"But ... the only person who has keys is Mrs. Elliott. Doreen Elliott

at Dene Cottage. It's not ... It's not her?"





"No, sir. Mrs. Elliott is in excellent health. It was Mrs. Elliott

who let us in to the property and gave us permission to search. One of

our colleagues has taken her home." There was something in the way the

black cop held his stare when he said this that sent a tremor of fear

skittering round Vance's nerves. The message coming through loud and

clear between the spoken words was the unspoken warning that his first

line of defence had crumbled. This was not an illegal entry and search.





Thank God for that. So who is it?"





"We can't speculate at this point, sir."





"But you must be able to tell me if it's a man or a woman, surely?"





Simon's lip curled. He could hold back no longer. "As if you didn't

know," he said, his voice thick with angry contempt. "You think our

heads button up the back?" He turned away, his hands balling into

fists.





"What is he talking about?" Vance demanded, moving into the angry mode

of the innocent bystander who senses they're about to become snagged up

in someone else's trouble.





Leon shrugged and lit a cigarette. "You tell me," he said negligently.





"Oh good," he said, looking over Vance's shoulder. "Looks like the

cavalry."





The woman emerging from the car that had drawn up behind Simon's didn't

look much like the cavalry to Vance. She couldn't have been more than

thirty. Even shrugged into an oversized mac, she was clearly slim and

pretty, with short blonde hair cut thick and shaggy. "Good evening,

gentlemen," she said briskly. "Mr. Vance, I'm Detective Chief

Inspector Carol Jordan. Would you excuse me for a moment, while I

confer with one of my colleagues. Leon, can you keep Mr. Vance company

for a minute? I want to take a look inside. Simon, a word, please?"





Before he had the chance to say anything, she'd swept Simon inside,

managing to open the door so narrowly that Vance had no chance to see

within. "I don't understand what's going on," Vance said. "Shouldn't

there be scene-of-crimes people here? And uniformed officers?"





Again, Leon shrugged. "It's not very like the telly, life." He

continued smoking down to the tip then threw his cigarette on the porch

step and ground it out.





"Do you mind?" Vance said, pointing. "This is my house. My doorstep.





Just because somebody got themselves killed inside doesn't mean the

police can vandalize the place, too."





Leon raised an eyebrow. "Frankly, sir, I think that's the least of your

worries right now."





"This is outrageous," Vance said.





"Me, I find suspicious death enough outrage for one night."





The door inched open and Simon and Carol re-emerged. The woman looked

sombre, the man faintly sick, Vance thought. Good. She didn't deserve

to die pretty, the bitch. "Chief Inspector, when is someone going to

tell me what is going on here?"





He'd been so busy watching her, he hadn't noticed the two men had moved

to either side of him in a flanking movement. Carol locked eyes with

him, her cold blue stare a match for his. "Jacko Vance, I am arresting

you on suspicion of murder. You do not need to say anything, but I must

warn you that it may harm your defence if you do not mention when

questioned something which you later rely upon in court. Anything you

do say may be given in evidence."





Disbelief blazed across his face as Simon and Leon closed in on him.





Before it had really sunk in that not only was this woman arresting him

but these idiots were laying hands on him, a cuff of steel clamped hard

over his left wrist. He recovered himself as they tried to manhandle

him back towards the Land Rover, convulsing beneath their hands in a

desperate attempt to free himself by sheer superiority of strength. But

he was off balance, and his feet went from under him on the gravel.





"Don't let him fall," Carol yelled, and somehow, Leon managed to get

under Vance as he hit the ground. Simon hung on grimly to the other end

of the handcuffs, yanking Vance's arm back, making him squeal.





"Make my day, shithead," Simon shouted. "Give me a reason to give you a

taste of what you gave Shaz." He hauled upwards on Vance's arm, forcing

him to struggle to his feet.





Leon scrambled back upright and pushed Vance in the chest. "You know

what would really make me happy? You trying to leg it, that would make

me fucking delirious, because then I'd have an excuse for kicking seven

colours of shit out of your scumbag body." He pushed him in the chest

again. "Go on, go for it. Go on, do one."





Vance stumbled back, as much to escape the venom in Leon's voice as to

ease the pain on his arm. He hit the Land Rover with a thud. Simon

yanked his arm down and fastened the other end of the handcuffs to the

bull bar. He took a deep breath then spat in Vance's face. When he

turned to face Carol, there were tears in his eyes. "He'll not be going

anywhere in a hurry," he croaked.





"You are going to regret this night," Vance said, his voice low and

dangerous.





Carol stepped forward and put a hand on Simon's arm. "You did well,

Simon. Now, unless anybody's got any better ideas, I think it's about

time we called the police."





There was something generic about police stations, Tony thought. The

canteens never served salad, the waiting areas always smelled of stale

cigarettes in spite of smoking having been banned for years, and the

decor never varied. Looking round the interview room in Hexham police

station at three in the morning, he realized he could be anywhere from

Penzance to Perth. On that gloomy thought, the door opened and Carol

came in with two mugs of coffee. "Strong, black and brewed some time in

the last week," she said, dropping into the chair opposite him.





"What's happening?"





She snorted. "He's still screaming about wrongful arrest and false

imprisonment. I've just given a statement of explanation."





He stirred his coffee and took in the signs of strain round her eyes.





"Which was?"





"In the area on inquiries, the lads got a report of a possible prowler.





They thought it would be quicker to check it out themselves being into

inter-force co-operation so they found a key-holder who was happy to let

them in and gave permission to search," Carol recited, leaning back and

staring sightlessly at the ceiling. "Concerned about the possibility of

a hidden stalker, they opened the basement where they found the dead

body of a young white female who answered the description of Donna

Doyle, whom they knew to be on the missing list. Since Mr. Vance is the

only person known to frequent the house, it was clear he must be a

suspect in what was obviously a suspicious death. I considered he was a

fugitive risk. He was at the scene with a vehicle capable of leaving

the road and avoiding pursuit.





"Although my authority does not extend into the force area of

Northumbria Police, I am empowered to effect a citizen's arrest. Placing

Mr. Vance in restraints which caused him minimal discomfort seemed a

better alternative than leaving him at large where any movement towards

his vehicle might have led to an over-reaction on the part of the

officers I was working with. Cuffing him to the Land Rover was, in

effect, for his own protection."





By the time she ended her recital, they were both grinning. "Anyway,

the local lads did me the favour of re-arresting him when they got

there."





"What about charging him?"





Carol looked depressed. "They're waiting for Vance's brief to arrive.





But they're running very scared. They've seen your dossier and they've

interviewed Kay and Simon and Leon, but they're still wary. It's not

over, Tony. Not by a long way. The fat lady hasn't even arrived yet."





"I just wish that they hadn't opened that cellar. That they'd staked

the place out and witnessed him opening it and going down there with

Donna's body."





Carol sighed. "She hadn't been dead long, did you know?"





"No."





"The police surgeon thought less than twenty-four hours." They sat in

silence, each wondering what they could have done better or faster,

whether more or less orthodoxy could have won them a faster response.





Carol broke the uneasy stillness. "If we can't put Vance away, I don't

think I want to be a copper any more."





"You feel like that because of what happened to Di Earnshaw," Tony said,

laying his hand on her arm.





"I feel like that because Vance is a lethal weapon and if we can't

neutralize the likes of `=190' him, we're nothing more than glorified traffic

wardens," she said bitterly.





"And if we can?"





She shrugged. "Then maybe we redeem ourselves for the ones we lose."





They sat in silence, sipping coffee. Then Tony ran a hand through his

hair and said, "Have they got a good pathologist?"





"I've no idea. Why?"





Before he could answer, the door opened on the worried face of Phil

Marshall, the superintendent in charge of the division. "Dr. Hill?





Could I have a word?"





"Come in, it's a shop," Carol muttered.





Marshall closed the door behind him. "Vance wants to talk to you.





Alone. He's happy for the conversation to be taped, but he wants it to

be just you and him."





"What about his brief?" Carol asked.





"He says he just wants Dr. Hill and himself. What do you say, Doc?





Will you talk to him?"





"We've got nothing to lose, have we?"





Marshall winced. "From where I'm standing, we've got quite a lot to

lose, actually. Frankly, I want evidence to charge Vance with or else I

want him out of here within the day. I'm going to no magistrate to ask

if I can keep Jacko Vance under lock and key on the basis of what you've

given me so far."





Tony took out his notebook and tore out a sheet of paper, scribbling

down a name and number. He handed it to Carol. "This is who we need to

get up here. Can you explain to them while I'm in with Jack the Lad?"





Carol read what he'd written and comprehension lit up her tired eyes.





"Of course." She reached out and squeezed his hand. "Good luck."





Tony nodded, then followed Marshall down the corridor. "We'll be taping

it, of course," Marshall said. "We've got to be squeaky clean on this

one. He's already talking about suing DCI Jordan." He stopped outside

an interview room and opened the door. He nodded to the uniformed

officer in the corner and the man left.





Tony stepped into the room and stared at his adversary. He couldn't

believe that there was still no dent in that arrogant exterior, no crack

in the charming facade. "Dr. Hill," Vance said, not a tremor in the

professionally smooth voice. "I wish I could say it was a pleasure, but

that would be too much of a lie for anyone to swallow. A bit like your

insane accusations."





"Dr. Hill has agreed to talk to you," Marshall interrupted. "We will

be taping the conversation. I'll leave you now."





He backed out and Vance waved Tony to a chair. The psychologist shook

his head and leaned against the wall, arms folded. "What did you want

me for?" Tony asked. "A confession?"





"If I wanted confession, I'd have asked for a priest. I wanted to see

you face to face to tell you that as soon as I get out of here I will be

suing you and DCI Jordan for slander."





Tony laughed. "Go ahead. We're neither of us worth a fraction of your

annual earnings. You'll be the one who ends up shelling out a fortune

in legal costs. Me, I'd relish the opportunity to get you on a witness

stand under oath."





"That's something you'll never achieve." Vance leaned back in his

chair. His eyes were cold, his smile reptilian. "These trumped-up

accusations won't stand up in the cold light of day. What have you got?





This dossier of yours with its doctored photographs and circumstantial

coincidences. "Here's Jacko Vance on the M1 at Leeds the night Shaz

Bowman died." Well, yes, that's because my second home is in

Northumberland and that's the best way to get there." His sonorous

voice dripped sarcasm.





"What about, "Here's Jacko Vance with a body in the cellar?" Or,

"Here's a photo of Jacko Vance with the dead girl from his cellar when

she was still living, breathing and laughing?" Tony asked, keeping his

voice level and mild. Let Vance get worked up, let him be the one to

strain at the leash of his self-control.





Vance's response was a sardonic smile. "It was your officers who

provided the answer to that," he said. They were the ones who raised

the possibility of a stalker. It's not so unlikely. Stalkers become

obsessed with their targets. I don't find it too hard to imagine a

stalker tracking me back to Northumberland. Everybody locally knows

Doreen Elliott keeps a set of my keys and, like most of the people round

here, she never locks her door if she's only popping next door for a cup

of tea, or down to her vegetable garden to dig some potatoes. Child's

play to borrow the keys and have a set made."





As he warmed to his theme, his smile broadened and his body language

grew more relaxed. "It's also common knowledge that I had a nuclear

shelter built in the chapel crypt. Slightly embarrassing in these days

of detente, but I can live with that," Vance continued, leaning forward

now, his prosthesis resting on the table, his other arm hooked over the

back of the chair. "And let's not forget the very public vendetta with

my ex-fiancee who, as you rightly pointed out, bears a strong

resemblance to these poor missing girls. I mean, wouldn't you think you

were doing me a favour by killing her image if you were obsessed with

me?" His grin was positively triumphal.





"And you are, aren't you, Dr. Hill? Or rather, as I will take great

pleasure in explaining to the world's press, you're obsessed with my

wife, I believe. Shaz Bowman's tragic death gave you the opportunity to

force your way into our lives and when dear, sweet Micky agreed to have

dinner with you, you formed the view that without me, she'd fall into

your arms. And your sad delusion has brought us to this point." He

shook his confident head pityingly.





Tony lifted his head and stared into a pair of eyes that could have come

from Mars for all the humanity they contained. "You killed Shaz Bowman.





You killed Donna Doyle."





"You'll never prove that. Since it's a complete fabrication, you'll

never prove it," Vance said with an air of nonchalance. Then he raised

one arm and covered first his eyes, then his mouth and finally,

stroked his ear. To a casual observer, it was merely the gesture of a

tired man. Tony read it instantly as the taunt it was.





He pushed off from the wall and took two long steps across the room.





Leaning on his fists, he thrust his face into Vance's personal space. In

spite of himself, the TV star craned his head back like a tortoise

retreating into its shell. "You may be right," Tony said. "It is

entirely possible that we will never nail you for Shaz Bowman or Donna

Doyle. But I'll tell you something, Jacko. You weren't always this

good. We'll get you for Barbara Fenwick."





"I have no idea what you're talking about," Vance said contemptuously.





Tony stood up and slowly began to stroll around the confined space as

leisurely as if it were the local park. "Twelve years ago when you

killed Barbara Fenwick there were a lot of things forensic science

couldn't do. Take tool marks for example. Pretty crude, the

comparisons they made back then. But these days, they've got scanning

electron microscopes and back-scatter electron microscopes. Don't ask

me how they work, but they can compare an injury to an implement and say

whether the two match up. Within the next few days, they'll be matching

the bones in Donna Doyle's damaged arm to the vice in your house." He

glanced at his watch. "With a bit of luck, the pathologist will be on

her way now. Professor Elizabeth Stewart. I don't know if you've heard

of her, but she has a terrific reputation in forensic anthropology as

well as pathology. If anyone can find the match between your vice and

Donna's injuries, it's Liz Stewart. Now, I realize that doesn't

implicate you if we accept the fantasy you've been spinning here."





He turned slowly to face Vance. "But it would if the vice matched

Barbara Fenwick's bone injuries, wouldn't it? Serial killers often like

to use the same weapon for all their murders. But it's hard to imagine

a stalker who's followed you around on a killing spree for twelve years

and never put a foot wrong, don't you think?"





This time, he saw a flicker of uncertainty in Vance's confident mask.





"What utter rubbish. Just for the sake of argument, even if you got an

exhumation order, no Crown Prosecutor is going to push a case that

depends on a mark on a piece of bone that's been in the ground for

twelve years."





"I couldn't agree more," Tony said. "But you see, the pathologist who

did the postmortem on Barbara Fenwick had never seen injuries quite like

that. They intrigued her. And she is a university professor Professor

Elizabeth Stewart, actually. She applied to the Home Office to retain

Barbara Fenwick's arm so she could use it as a teaching aid. To

illustrate the effect on bone and flesh of blunt trauma from

compression. Funnily enough, she noticed that there was a slight

imperfection on the bottom edge of the implement that inflicted the

injuries. A tiny projection of metal that made a mark in bone as

distinctive as a fingerprint." He let the words hang in the air.





Vance's eyes never left his face.





"When Professor Stewart moved to London, she left the arm behind. For

the last twelve years, Barbara Fenwick's arm has been perfectly

preserved in the anatomy department of Manchester University." Tony

smiled gently. "One solid piece of irrefutable evidence tying you to a

weapon used on a murder victim, and suddenly the circumstantial looks

very different, don't you think?"





He walked to the door and opened it. "And by the way I don't fancy your

wife in the slightest. I've never been so inadequate that I had to hide

behind a lesbian."





In the corridor, Tony signalled to the uniformed officer by the door

that he should go back into the interview room. Then, exhausted by the

effort of confronting Vance, he leaned against the wall, sliding down

into a squat, elbows on knees and hands over his face.





He was still there ten minutes later when Carol Jordan emerged from the

viewing room where she and Marshall had watched the encounter between

the hunter and the killer. She crouched in front of him and took his

head between her hands. He looked into her face. "What do you think?"





he said anxiously.





"You convinced Phil Marshall," she said. "He's spoken to Professor

Stewart. She wasn't too thrilled at being woken in the middle of the

night, but when Marshall explained what was what, she got really

excited. There's a train gets in from London around nine. She'll be on

it, with her famous slides of the injury. Marshall's organized someone

to go over and collect Barbara Fenwick's arm from Manchester University

first thing. If it looks like a match, they'll charge him."





Tony closed his eyes. "I just hope he's still using the same vice."





"Oh, I think you'll find he is," Carol said eagerly. "We were watching.





You couldn't see from where you were, but when you hit him with

Professor Stewart and her preserved arm, his right leg started jittering

up and down. He couldn't control it. He's still got the same vice. I'd

stake my life on it."





Tony felt a smile gather the corners of his mouth. "I think the fat

lady just landed." He put his arms round Carol and stood up, bringing

her with him. He held her at arm's length and grinned down at her.





"You did a great job in there. I'm really proud to be on your team."





Her face was solemn, her eyes grave.





Tony dropped his arms and took a deep breath. "Carol, I've been running

away from you for a long time," he said.





Carol nodded. "I think I understand why." She looked down, reluctant

to meet his eyes now they were finally having this conversation.





"Oh?"





The muscles along her jaw tightened, then she looked up at him. "I

didn't have blood on my hands. So I could never understand what it

feels like to be you. Di Earnshaw's death changed that. And the fact

that neither of us could save Donna ... "





Tony nodded bleakly. "It's not a comfortable thing to have in common."





Carol had often visualized a moment like this between them. She had

thought she knew what she wanted to happen. Now, she was taken aback to

find her responses so different from what she had imagined. She put a

hand on his forearm and said, "It's easier for friends to share than

lovers, Tony."





He gazed at her for a long moment, frowning. He thought of the bodies

Jacko Vance had incinerated in the hospital where he gave his time to

sit with the dying. He thought of the loss of what Shaz Bowman could

have achieved. He thought of all the other deaths that still lay ahead

of them both. And he thought of redemption, not through work, but

through friendship. His face cleared and he smiled. "You know, I think

you could be right."





EPILOGUE





Murder was like magic, he thought. The quickness of his hand had always

deceived the eye, and that was how it was going to stay. They thought

they had him trapped, sewn into a bag and wrapped with chains of guilt.





They thought they were lowering him into a tank of proof that would

drown him. But he was Houdini. He would burst free when they least

expected it.





Jacko Vance lay on the narrow police cell bed, the real arm tucked

behind his head. He stared at the ceiling, remembering how he had felt

in hospital, the only other place where he'd had no choice about staying

put. There had been pockets of despair and impotent anger and he knew

those would probably afflict him again before he was free of this place

and others like it. But when he'd been in hospital, he'd known he would

be free of it all one day and he'd focused all his powerful intelligence

on shaping that moment.





True, he'd had Micky's help then. He wondered if he could still rely on

her. He thought that as long as he could cast credible doubt, she would

stand by him. As soon as it looked like he was going under, she'd be

gone. Since he had no intention of letting that happen, he thought he

could probably be sure of her.





The evidence was flimsy. But he couldn't deny that Tony Hill was

impressive in his command of it. He would be hard to discredit in a

courtroom, even if Vance succeeded in planting advance press stories

accusing the psychologist of being obsessed with Micky. And there was a

risk there. Hill had somehow discovered that Micky was a lesbian. If he

leaked that in response to an accusation against him, it would do

serious damage both to Micky's credibility and his own image as a man

who needed no other woman but his adorable wife.





No, if it came to a court battle, even with a jury of telly addicts,

Vance would be at risk. He had to make certain it never went past a

preliminary hearing. He had to destroy the evidence against him, to

demonstrate there was no case to answer.





The greatest threat came from the pathologist and her reading of the

tool marks If he could discredit that, there were only circumstantial

details. Together, they weighed heavy, but individually, they could be

undermined. The vice was too solid a piece of substantiation to submit

to that.





The first step was to cast doubt on whether the arm from the university

really belonged to Barbara Fenwick. In a university pathology

department, it could not be held under the sort of security of a police

evidence room. Anyone could have had access to it over the years. It

could even have been replaced with another arm deliberately crushed in

his vice by, say, a police officer determined to frame him. Or students

could have swapped it in some macabre prank. Yes, a little work there

could force a few cracks into the reliability of the preserved arm.





The second step was to prove the vice had not belonged to him when

Barbara Fenwick had died. He lay on the hard mattress and racked his

brains to find an answer. "Phyllis," he eventually murmured, a sly

smile creeping across his face. "Phyllis Gates."





She'd had terminal cancer. It had started in her left breast then

worked its way through her lymphatic system and finally, agonizingly,

into her spine. He'd spent several nights by her bedside, sometimes

talking, sometimes simply holding her hand in silence. He loved the

sense of power that working with the virtual dead gave him. They'd be

gone, and he would still be here, on top of the world. Phyllis Gates

was long gone, but her twin brother Terry was alive and well. Presumably

he was still running his market stall.





Terry sold tools. New and second-hand. Terry credited Vance with the

only happiness his sister had known in the last weeks of her life. Terry

would walk on hot coals for Vance. Terry would think telling a jury

he'd sold the vice to Vance only a couple of years previously was the

least he could do to repay the debt.





Vance sat upright, stretching out his arms like a hero accepting the

adulation of the crowd. He'd worked it out. He was as good as a free

man. Murder was indeed like magic. And one day soon, Tony Hill would

find that out for himself. Vance could hardly wait.





